school_number	course_title	course_description	course_active	course_type
1	Introduction to Product Development		1	twoyear
1	Computer-Aided Mechanical Design		1	twoyear
1	Energy Conversion Principles		1	twoyear
1	Introduction to MEMS Design		1	twoyear
1	Experiential Advanced Control Design I.		1	twoyear
1	Advanced Control Systems I.		1	twoyear
1	Design of Microprocessor-Based Mechanical Systems.		1	twoyear
1	Advanced Design and Automation		1	twoyear
1	New Product Development: Design Theory and Methods		1	twoyear
1	"Topics in Control, Modeling and Optimization"		1	twoyear
1	Introduction to Communication Networks		1	twoyear
1	Feedback Control Systems.		1	twoyear
1	"Fundamental Algorithms for Systems Modeling, Analysis, and Optimization"		1	twoyear
1	Mechatronic Design Laboratory.		1	twoyear
1	Computer-Aided Verification		1	twoyear
1	Advanced Control Systems I		1	twoyear
1	Fundamentals of Wireless Communication.		1	twoyear
1	"Embedded System Design: Models, Validation, and Synthesis."		1	twoyear
1	Advanced Robotics.		1	twoyear
1	Computer Security.		1	twoyear
1	Introduction to Database Systems.		1	twoyear
1	Quantum Information Science and Technology.		1	twoyear
1	Social Implications of Computer Technology.		1	twoyear
1	 Concurrent Models of Computation.		1	twoyear
1	 User-Interfaces to Computer Systems.		1	twoyear
1	Security in Computer Systems.		1	twoyear
1	Internet and Network Security		1	twoyear
1	Computer Networks.		1	twoyear
1	Cryptography.		1	twoyear
1	Introduction to Design of Human Work Systems and Organizations.		1	twoyear
1	Supply Chain Operation and Management.		1	twoyear
1	"Modeling Energy, Environmental, and Resource Systems."		1	twoyear
1	Photovoltaic Materials; Modern Technologies in the Context of a Growing Renewable Energy Market.		1	twoyear
1	Electric Power Systems.		1	twoyear
1	Energy Economics.		1	twoyear
1	Smart Grids: Introduction	"Learn about the new intelligent energy grid that supports the green-energy initiatives of the 21st century. Study real-world value propositions, business perspectives and solution scenarios from business economics and technical practicalities points of view."	1	cert
1	Smart Grids: Command and Control	"In this survey course, you first review the communication technology for distribution automation of AC energy and then advance into technology trade-off considerations. You build a foundation for understanding the control network."	1	cert
1	Smart Grids: Energy-Efficient Transmission	learn about the challenges of high-power interconnections and review quality considerations.	1	cert
1	Smart Grids: Internet of Things	"Taking smart energy grids as a model, you investigate topics such as wireless sensor network issues, the role of middleware, radio frequency identification (RFID) and sensor network technologies and security and privacy issues"	1	cert
1	Smart Grids: Metering and Home Area Networks	"Gain a solid technical foundation for understanding smart meters and home power networking, including Open HAN system requirements, modern wireless sensor networks, home automation and ZigBee Smart Energy"	1	cert
1	Smart Grids: Microgrids	"Variety of microgrid topics, including distributed generation, wind, photovoltaics, fuel cells, supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems, securing smart grids, matching community needs, smart meters and devices."	1	cert
1	Introduction to Sustainability Management	"Sustainability in the context of environmental, economic, and social forces that shape emerging policies and management decisions. Investigate the possibility of creating a common set of sustainability principles"	1	cert
1	Climate Change and Law AB 32: What It Means for You	"Learn requirements set forth in AB 32 and other laws, and gain a solid understanding of related issues."	1	cert
1	"Energy for Sustainability: Technology, Planning and Policy"	"Evaluate policies, regulations, and laws at the local and state level. Learn how energy strategies impact residential and commercial sectors, corporations, and governments. Examine issues in science, technology, policy, law, and business"	1	cert
1	Energy Use and Climate Change	Examine the threat from the lack of significant incentives to change behavior and shift habits toward sustainable energy consumption in the United States. Study the fundamental impacts from current energy use and the support infrastructure.	1	cert
1	"Freshman Seminar: The science, technology, policy, and politics of California air pollution"	"California experiences the nation’s worst air quality. Its innovative regulatory program is a model for the nation and the world. This seminar examines current California air pollution issues including health-based air quality standards and the problems of their attainment, the next generation of clean cars, California’s evolving role in addressing global warming, and more. This seminar is an unusual opportunity to explore air pollution and climate change issues with a professor who also led relevant California regulatory programs."	1	cert
1	Quantitative aspects of global environment	"Application of basic principles of natural science to the analysis of human influence on environmental conditions and processes at continental to global scale. Topics covered include dimensions of the physical world and of human modifications of it; techniques of estimation and back of the envelope calculation; box models of environmental stocks and flows: equilibrium and feedback; chemical equilibria in the environment; nutrient cycles and their disruptions; acid deposition and its consequences; climate change and its consequences; stratospheric ozone depletion; sources, fate and effects of toxic substances in the global environment; radioactivity and radiation; epidemics; biodiversity and its diminution; carrying capacity and human population growth."	1	cert
1	Ecological economics in historical context	"Economists through history have explored economic and environmental interactions, physical limits to growth, what constitutes the good life, and how economic justice can be assured. Yet economists continue to use measures and models that simplify these issues and promote bad outcomes. Ecological economics responds to this tension between the desire for simplicity and the multiple perspectives needed to understand complexity in order to move toward sustainable, fulfilling, just economies"	1	cert
1	California Water	"California, technically a desert on average, provides extremely interesting examples of the politics of water, the social and environmental consequences of water development, and the relationships between water uses and energy. This course provides the historical, legal, environmental, and economic background needed to understand the current social and ecological challenges of providing water for a growing population and major economy, now also made more complex by climate change."	1	cert
1	Behavior and sustainability (ERG Doctoral Student Facilitated)	"The aggregated effects of billions of individual decisions each day have large adverse effects on human and ecosystem health, natural resource stocks, and global climate change. While the causes of environmental degradation are anthropogenic, so too are the solutions. This course examines different perspectives on the motivations of human behavior, drawing on diverse disciplines, including psychology, economics, and sociology. Theories of behavior change and behavioral intervention case studies will inform student efforts to design viable programs that promote improved sustainability through behavior change."	1	cert
1	Photovoltaic materials; modern technologies in the context of a growing renewable energy market	This technical course focuses on the fundamentals of photovoltaic energy conversion with respect to the physical principals of operation and design of efficient semiconductor solar cell devices. This course aims to equip students with the concepts and analytical skills necessary to assess the utility and viability of various modern photovoltaic technologies in the context of a growing global renewable energy market. Also listed as Materials Science and Engineering C226.	1	cert
1	Research methods in social sciences	"This course aims to introduce graduate students to the rich diversity of research methods that social scientists have developed for the empirical aspects of their work. Its primary goal is to encourage critical thinking about the research process: how we ""know,"" how we match research methods to research questions, how we design and conduct our information/data collection, what we assume explicitly and implicitly, and the ethical dilemmas raised by fieldwork-oriented studies. The course will be broad rather than deep; it is a step toward, and not a substitute for, in-depth courses on interviewing or regression analysis or the philosophy of knowledge."	1	cert
1	Energy Economics (Roomshare with ER C180 and EnvEconC180)	This course explores input-output and cost benefit analysis applied to energy; exhaustion theory and economics of energy supply; patterns of energy use; trade-offs in energy conservation; the effect of energy policy on supply and demand; projecting future energy and resource supply and use. Prerequisites: Economics 100A or equivalent; basic calculus or linear algebra.	1	cert
1	Information and Communications Technology for Development	"This seminar reviews current literature and debates regarding Information and Communication Technologies and Development (ICTD). This is an interdisciplinary and practice-oriented field that draws on insights from economics, sociology, engineering, computer science, management, public health, etc."	1	cert
1	Energy and Environmental Markets (Offered through business and engineering)	"In the past 30 years, some of the largest industries have transitioned from regulated to market-based paradigms.  Managers in many transportation, information technology, and energy companies have had to devise strategies to cope with changes in economic and environmental regulations and the evolution of new markets and trading platforms.  The energy industries feature a complex mix of regulation and market-driven incentives.  Over the last decade, industries that had previously been viewed as staid and conservative have been rocked by deregulation initiatives, the California electricity crises, the Enron scandal, rising commodity prices, and now the challenge to reduce greenhouse gases.  Drawing on the tools of economics and finance, we study the business and public policy issues that these changes have raised in energy markets. Topics include the development and effect of organized spot, futures, and derivative markets in energy; the political economy of deregulation; climate change, environmental impacts and policies related to energy production and use; privatization of publicly owned energy assets; market power and antitrust; and the transportation and storage of energy commodities. We examine the economic determinants of industry structure and evolution of competition among firms in these industries; investigate successful and unsuccessful strategies for entering new markets and competing in existing markets; and analyze the rationale for and effects of public policies in energy markets."	1	cert
1	Science and Regulatory Policy (enrollment limited to ERG students only)	"This seminar will examine the use, misuse, and abuse of the scientific process and scientific information in regulatory decisions. Topics covered will include the role and limits of science, use of scientific information in the regulatory process, identifying and controlling improper political interference, and judicial review of science-laden agency decisions. Many examples will be drawn from environmental and natural resource regulation, but the course will range well beyond those topics."	1	cert
1	Master's project seminar (for ERG students only)	"Required of second-year ERG Master's candidates. Topics include the adoption of a research project, research design, presentation of work, statistical analyses. Students will apply the interdisciplinary methods, approaches, and perspectives learned in the core curriculum. Sequence begins fall each year. Credit and grade to be awarded upon completion of the full sequence."	1	cert
1	Colloquium	"Presentations of research in energy issues by faculty, students, and visiting lecturers. Master's degree students required to enroll for three semesters."	1	cert
1	PhD Seminar		1	cert
1	Directed group study sustainability in Action: Cal Climate Action Course	This is an interdisciplinary course addressing both theoretical and practical aspects of campus sustainability; students will undertake individual or group projects to address particular sustainability issues on campus. Prerequisites:Graduate standing.	1	cert
1	Individual Research		1	cert
1	Graduate Student Instructor Practicum	ERG students only - employed as Graduate Student Instructors.  Permission of instructor before enrolling.  This course does not meet the pedagogy requirement for first-time GSIs.  Seehttp://gsi.berkeley.edu/faculty/300courses.html for open courses.	1	cert
1	INDEPENDENT STUDY DOCTORAL STUDENTS	To be used by ERG students only preparing for qualifying exams. 	1	cert
2	Sustainability and the Built Environment	"This introduction to the Green Building and Sustainable Design Certificate Program highlights large-scale planned communities, infill sites and individual structures from the U.S. and other nations, as well as how these buildings are serviced and managed."	1	cert
2	"Sustainable Planning, Environmental Site Design and Development"	"Learn about fundamental sustainability issues and processes as they apply to community planning and site design situations. Discover how to identify key challenges when incorporating sustainability into planning strategies, policies and site design, and examine technical and environmental factors of site design. "	1	cert
2	Sustainable Water Management in Site Design and Development	"Incorporate a sustainable water resources approach into urban development and its related infrastructure at the planning, design and construction stages."	1	cert
2	Green Architecture	"Explore the issues, challenges and opportunities associated with green building and sustainable design. Examine innovative residential, commercial, industrial, mixed-use, and low- and high-density specialty buildings. Evaluate the micro- and macro-economic issues associated with green buildings."	1	cert
2	Green Building Materials and Construction Methods	"Learn to implement green building practices into homes, apartments, business complexes and office buildings. Utilize materials and techniques that promote healthy, durable and environmentally responsible construction. "	1	cert
2	"Energy Sources, End Uses and Impacts"	Examine the energy issue from the macro perspective of the built environment to the micro approach of how heat flows throughout a building.	1	cert
2	Green Building Design Studio	Apply what you learned in the Green Building and Sustainable Design or Renewable Energy certificate programs to a real-world example.	1	cert
2	Introduction to Energy Resource Management	"Examine the four major components of energy management--supply, demand, regulation and environment--and the concepts and principles behind successful energy management."	1	cert
2	Energy Resource Management: Supply	"Learn to conduct market assessments and to develop sourcing and procurement strategies. Topics include energy management control systems, natural gas purchasing opportunities in the spot market, thermal energy storage, alternative energy supplies, energy security and energy trading."	1	cert
2	Energy Resource Management: Regulatory	"Learn the difference between regulations and tariffs pertaining to electrical generation, transmission and distribution and those pertaining to gas production, transmission and distribution."	1	cert
2	Energy Resource Management: Demand	"Familiarize yourself with an overview of Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED). Amp up your knowledge of: the latest lighting technologies and products, project management, fleet operation and maintenance, verification of energy savings, and best practices and benchmarking. "	1	cert
2	Energy Resource Management: Environment	"Explore the range of environmental issues affected by energy use. Gain perspectives on current trends and technologies. Examine the environmental fundamentals--planning, development and implementation--of WAGES (water, air, gas, electricity and steam) and renewable energy systems"	1	cert
2	Energy Resource Management: Leadership	Examine the leadership issues involved in managing energy from organizational behavior and change management to project management and communication skills.	1	cert
2	Sustainability and the Built Environment	"Explore sustainability as it relates to the built environment—from the economic, environmental and social-equity perspectives. Learn how researchers and analysts define sustainability, as well as how they measure and track progress. "	1	cert
2	"Energy Sources, End Uses and Impacts"	"From solar panels and exterior shades to lighting a space and painting a roof white, learn how to analyze energy use as an effective strategy to promote energy conservation in the built environment."	1	cert
2	Green Building Design Studio	Apply what you learned in the Green Building and Sustainable Design or Renewable Energy certificate programs to a real-world example.	1	cert
2	Cogeneration and District Solutions	"Gain an overview of micro-cogeneration and district energy solutions for commercial and district applications. Learn about cogeneration system selection and sizing, preliminary feasibility study approaches, heat to power ratios, computer programs, economic and environmental issues, emerging technologies and regulations."	1	cert
2	Bioenergy Systems Design	"Explore the environmental, economic and social impacts. Learn about emerging bioenergy technologies, legislation and regulations."	1	cert
2	Geothermal Energy Systems Design	Gain the necessary knowledge to understand the promise and limitations of geothermal heat pump installation and direct use applications.	1	cert
2	Small Wind Energy Systems	"Learn to design and install a small wind system for residential and commercial applications. The class will examine: how to measure wind and estimate energy output; small wind system types and components; wind system selection and site criteria; economic issues; public concerns; permitting; installation, safety, operation and maintenance criteria; emerging technologies, legislation and regulations; and case studies. "	1	cert
2	Solar Photovoltaic (PV) Energy Systems Design	"Learn the basics of solar photovoltaic power systems for both residential and commercial use, as well as solar system physics and technology, design and implementation."	1	cert
2	Solar Thermal Energy Systems Design	Learn the fundamentals of designing and installing these power systems for residential and commercial applications and work in teams to design a solar thermal energy system.	1	cert
2	Solar Photovoltaic (PV) Energy Systems: Overview	"Gain useful background information about the solar resources in California and the various federal and state government initiatives to promote solar energy as a mainstream power source, including the latest policies and legislation. Learn about the California Solar Initiative and its future implementation, utility interconnection and net metering issues."	1	cert
2	Solar Thermal Energy Systems: Overview	"Gain practical information about industry trends and state-of-the-art technologies. Learn about the actual market situation and how to grow your skills in consulting, planning and design, economics and marketing."	1	cert
2	Solar Photovoltaic (PV) Energy Systems Design	"Learn the basics of solar photovoltaic power systems for both residential and commercial use, as well as solar system physics and technology, design and implementation."	1	cert
2	Solar Thermal Energy Systems Design	Learn the fundamentals of designing and installing these power systems for residential and commercial applications and work in teams to design a solar thermal energy system.	1	cert
2	Solar Photovoltaic (PV) Energy Systems: Compliance and Code Overview	"Learn about design and installation compliance issues for both residential & commercial solar energy systems in the areas of system sizing, array layout, electrical wiring and utility interconnection."	1	cert
2	Computer-Aided Mechanism Design		1	twoyear
2	Mechatronics		1	twoyear
2	Wind Power Engineering		1	twoyear
2	Theory and Design of Control Systems		1	twoyear
2	Analysis and Design of Digital Control Systems		1	twoyear
2	Data Acquisition and Analysis		1	twoyear
2	RF and Microwaves in Wireless Communication		1	twoyear
2	RF and Microwaves in Wireless Communication		1	twoyear
2	RF and Microwaves in Wireless Communication		1	twoyear
2	"Instrumentation Interfacing, Signals and Systems"		1	twoyear
2	Control System Design Methods		1	twoyear
2	Microcomputer-Based System Design		1	twoyear
2	Computer Networks		1	twoyear
2	Design Projects in Communication Networks		1	twoyear
2	Digital Systems I		1	twoyear
2	Advanced Microwave Circuit and Device Design Techniques		1	twoyear
2	Multivariable Control System Design		1	twoyear
2	"Internet Measurements, Modeling and Analysis"		1	twoyear
2	Computer Security		1	twoyear
2	Computer Security for Non-Majors		1	twoyear
2	Introduction to Software Engineering		1	twoyear
2	Database Systems		1	twoyear
2	Database Systems		1	twoyear
2	Scientific Data Management		1	twoyear
2	Design and Analysis of Algorithms		1	twoyear
2	Modern Cryptography		1	twoyear
2	Cryptography for E-Commerce		1	twoyear
2	Computer and Information Security		1	twoyear
2	Computer Security: Intrusion Detection Based Approach		1	twoyear
2	Mobile and Wireless Networks		1	twoyear
2	Environmental Remote Sensing		1	twoyear
2	Integrating Environmental Science and Management		1	twoyear
3	"Introduction to Corporate Social Responsibility, Sustainability and Green Business "	"The explosion of corporate social responsibility into mainstream business decision-making has been fueled by an unprecedented number of recent environmental, financial, legal, social and climate events."	1	cert
3	Legal Developments Concerning the Environment and Climate Change	"A general sense of urgency, and the realization that there is little time to waste, has given rise to a host of legislative and regulatory enactments. Review global and federal developments, with particular attention on developments in California."	1	cert
3	Framework for Strategic Leadership	The course will also provide an overview of the LEED system for sustainable construction; examine traditional professional and contract liabilities and how these liabilities and associated risks may be expected to play out in the new arena of sustainability.	1	cert
3	Green Marketing Principles: Winning Strategies for a New Era	"Socio-economic, cultural and legislative pressures are creating an inevitable tide towards a future in which companies will be more socially responsible and provide cleaner and more efficient products and services that damage the planet less. "	1	cert
3	Climate Protection and Environmental Sustainability 	" In this course you will explore the forces driving sustainability change, the application of sustainable practices, and be guided through an analysis that will help you develop a vision and plan for implementation."	1	cert
3	"Sustainability Reporting: Drivers, Protocols and Quantitative Methods"	This course introduces students to the typical drivers and stakeholders associated with sustainability programs; some of the available reporting protocols; factors to consider when selecting KPIs and metrics; and how to establish goals and describe performance on a quantitative or qualitative basis.	1	cert
3	The Social Component of Sustainability	"Identify various social impacts as opportunities for adopting sustainable practices, including life-cycle analyses and community engagement strategies that will inspire your consumer base, adding value beyond direct Return-On-Investment (ROI)."	1	cert
3	Solar and Renewable Energy Systems		1	twoyear
3	Sustainable Energy Systems		1	twoyear
3	Introduction to Control Systems		1	twoyear
3	Computer-Aided Mechanism Design		1	twoyear
3	Sustainable Energy Systems		1	twoyear
3	Micro-Sensors and Actuators		1	twoyear
3	Introduction to Data Management		1	twoyear
3	Communication Systems		1	twoyear
3	Communication Systems		1	twoyear
3	Introduction to Computer Networks		1	twoyear
3	Introduction to Control Systems		1	twoyear
3	Control Systems I Laboratory		1	twoyear
3	Sampled-Data and Digital Control Systems		1	twoyear
3	Power Systems		1	twoyear
3	Power Systems Laboratory		1	twoyear
3	Industrial and Power Electronics		1	twoyear
3	Advanced Topics in Industrial and Power Electronics		1	twoyear
3	Microelectromechanical Systems (MEMS)		1	twoyear
3	Digital Communications		1	twoyear
3	Wireless Communications		1	twoyear
3	Internet		1	twoyear
3	Industrial and Power Electronics		1	twoyear
3	Industrial and Power Electronics		1	twoyear
3	Micro-Sensors and Actuators		1	twoyear
3	Introduction to Data Management		1	twoyear
3	Project in Databases and Web Applications		1	twoyear
3	Next Generation Search Systems		1	twoyear
3	Computer Networks		1	twoyear
3	Computer and Network Security		1	twoyear
3	Internet Applications Engineering		1	twoyear
3	Introduction to Applied Cryptography		1	twoyear
3	Network Optimization		1	twoyear
3	Foundations of Cryptographic Protocols		1	twoyear
3	Applied Cryptography		1	twoyear
3	Network and Distributed Systems Security		1	twoyear
3	"Information Retrieval, Filtering, and Classification"		1	twoyear
3	Principles of Data Management		1	twoyear
3	Transaction Processing and Distributed Data Management		1	twoyear
3	Advanced Topics in Data Management		1	twoyear
3	Internet Technology		1	twoyear
3	Wireless and Mobile Networking		1	twoyear
3	"Methods III: Modeling, Economics, and Management"		1	twoyear
4	Plumbing Systems I: Code and Engineering Fundamentals (Online)	"This course reviews codes and basic engineering principles and graphic presentations related to plumbing systems design, including load calculations, piping design, and equipment selection, based upon the latest issue of several plumbing codes. Plumbing fixtures and piping material selection are also discussed. Topics include a brief plumbing history, plumbing fixtures, sanitary waste and vent, traps, pumps and sewage ejectors, potable hot and cold water, and storm water."	1	cert
4	Plumbing Systems II: Advanced Engineering Systems	"Students are provided with a comprehensive coverage of the design, calculation, and code requirements of advanced plumbing systems, including storm water systems, pumps and pumping systems, automatic fire sprinkler and standpipe systems, gaseous agent suppression systems, medical gas systems, specialized water treatment systems (such as water softening and deionizing), and fuel oil systems."	1	cert
4	Plumbing Systems III: Systems Applications	"The course covers the contract document preparation process consisting of plans and specifications, as well as the construction administration process of shop drawings and review of construction work in progress."	1	cert
4	HVAC Fundamentals	This is a preliminary course in air conditioning design with an emphasis on heat transfer and psychrometrics. The course covers the air conditioning design process and human thermal-comfort requirements. Principles of heat transfer are used to calculate heating and cooling loads of building structures. Actual design problems are discussed and reviewed.	1	cert
4	HVAC Systems	"This course briefly reviews the Carnot cycle as a refresher for studying the performance of various HVAC systems, including air-cooled, water-cooled, and supermarket systems cooled by a multi-circuited evaporative condenser. Students are introduced to different types of system specifications typically given to contractors. Instruction shows how large HVAC water-cooled, field-assembled systems are designed by selecting a factory-packaged water-cooled chiller and water tower."	1	cert
4	HVAC Controls	"Fundamentals of HVAC controls and their application to the many elements of heating, ventilating, and air conditioning systems used in commercial buildings. Instruction in control basics, theory, and types of controls provides a background to discussions of pneumatic, electric, electronic, and digital controls."	1	cert
4	HVAC Equipment	"This course provides comprehensive coverage of HVAC equipment selection. Air conditioning topics include air handling equipment, refrigeration equipment, condensers, chillers, cooling towers, and absorption."	1	cert
4	Power Conversion Thermodynamics Laboratory.		1	twoyear
4	Energy and Environment.		1	twoyear
4	Introduction to Feedback and Control Systems: Dynamic Systems Control I.		1	twoyear
4	Digital Control of Physical Systems		1	twoyear
4	Control System Design Laboratory		1	twoyear
4	Introduction to Micromachining and Microelectromechanical Systems (MEMS).		1	twoyear
4	Introduction to Micromachining and Microelectromechanical Systems (MEMS) Laboratory.		1	twoyear
4	Robust Control System Analysis and Design.		1	twoyear
4	Advanced Digital Control for Mechatronic Systems		1	twoyear
4	Introduction to Micromachining and Microelectromechanical Systems (MEMS).		1	twoyear
4	"Sensors, Actuators, and Signal Processing"		1	twoyear
4	Computer Networks: Physical Layer		1	twoyear
4	Introduction to Communication Systems.		1	twoyear
4	Data Communications and Telecommunication Networks.		1	twoyear
4	Principles of Feedback Control.		1	twoyear
4	Photonic Sensor Design Laboratory		1	twoyear
4	Wireless Communication Links and Antennas		1	twoyear
4	Microwave and Millimeter Wave Active Devices		1	twoyear
4	Microwave Wireless Laboratory		1	twoyear
4	Data Communication Systems Laboratory		1	twoyear
4	Systems Design		1	twoyear
4	Analysis and Design of RF Circuits and Systems		1	twoyear
4	Network Economics and Game Theory		1	twoyear
4	Estimation and Detection in Communication and Radar Engineering.		1	twoyear
4	Signal Processing in Communications		1	twoyear
4	Telecommunication Switching and Queueing Systems		1	twoyear
4	Telecommunication Architecture and Networks		1	twoyear
4	Telecommunication Networks and Multiple-Access Communications		1	twoyear
4	Wireless Communications Systems		1	twoyear
4	Linear Optimal Control		1	twoyear
4	Computer Network Fundamentals		1	twoyear
4	Software Engineering.		1	twoyear
4	Introduction to Computer Security		1	twoyear
4	Database Systems		1	twoyear
4	Web Applications		1	twoyear
4	Introduction to Cryptography.		1	twoyear
4	Network Protocol and Systems Software Design for Wireless and Mobile Internet		1	twoyear
4	Data Transmission in Computer Communications		1	twoyear
4	Computer Communications and Networks.		1	twoyear
4	Distributed Multiaccess Control in Networks.		1	twoyear
4	Internet Architecture and Protocols		1	twoyear
4	Advanced Computer Networks		1	twoyear
4	Verification of Concurrent Programs.		1	twoyear
4	Computer-Aided Verification.		1	twoyear
4	Computer Security.		1	twoyear
4	Databases and Knowledge Bases		1	twoyear
4	Advanced Data and Knowledge Bases.		1	twoyear
4	Object-Oriented and Semantic Database Systems.		1	twoyear
4	Distributed Database Systems		1	twoyear
4	Intelligent Information Systems.		1	twoyear
4	Web Information Management.		1	twoyear
4	Current Topics in Data Structures		1	twoyear
4	Speech and Language Communication in Artificial Intelligence		1	twoyear
4	Cryptography		1	twoyear
4	Cryptographic Protocols		1	twoyear
4	Environmental Science and Engineering Problems Course.		1	twoyear
4	Environmental Science and Engineering Problems Course.		1	twoyear
4	Environmental Science and Engineering Problems Course.		1	twoyear
4	Environmental Science and Engineering Problems Course.		1	twoyear
4	Managing Entrepreneurial Organizations		1	twoyear
4	Operations Technology Management		1	twoyear
5	Computer Aided Engineering		1	twoyear
5	Mechatronics		1	twoyear
5	Linear Control System		1	twoyear
5	non Linear Control		1	twoyear
5	 Advanced Topics Computer Systems		1	twoyear
5	Networking of Embedded Sensor Systems		1	twoyear
5	Advanced Topics in Computer Networks and Distributed Systems		1	twoyear
5	Advanced Topics in  Intelligent Systems		1	twoyear
5	Algorithm Design and Analysis		1	twoyear
5	Database Systems		1	twoyear
5	Discrete Mathematics		1	twoyear
5	Software Engineering		1	twoyear
5	Computer Architecture		1	twoyear
5	Operating Systems		1	twoyear
5	Computer Networks		1	twoyear
5	Environmental Microbiology		1	twoyear
5	Water Resources and Management		1	twoyear
5	Remote Sensing of the Environment		1	twoyear
5	Decision Analysis in Management		1	twoyear
5	Sustainable Energy		1	twoyear
5	Modeling and Design of Energy Systems		1	twoyear
5	Energy Policy and Planning		1	twoyear
6	Energy Management-Principles and Practice	"Examine the latest trends, innovations, and best practices for reducing costs associated with facilities usage."	1	cert
6	Energy Resource Management	"Examines major energy resource management issues including demand, supply, utilization, management, monitoring, conservation and planning. Participants learn how to develop successful energy management strategies to eliminate waste, manage usage, control costs and plan for future demand. "	1	cert
6	"Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC) Systems"	"Surveys air conditioning, heating and ventilation systems including cost and energy efficiency, load requirements, system design elements and tradeoffs in performance when evaluating various systems. Additional time is devoted to examine new technology and best practices currently being utilized in systems."	1	cert
6	"Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC): Equipment and Controls"	"Examines HVAC controls and equipment and their application to the many elements of heating, ventilating, and air conditioning systems. Emphasis is placed on commercial or industrial projects."	1	cert
6	"Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC): Principles and Practice"	"Survey the principles and practices to effectively design, implement, and maintain HVAC systems."	1	cert
6	NABCEP Solar Photovoltaic Entry Level Training and Exam	"A training course designed to prepare you to enter the solar field and to take the North American Board of Certified Energy Practitioners (NABCEP) PV Entry Level Exam. Topics include the fundamental principles of the application; design, installation and operation of grid-tied and stand-alone PV Systems; and an understanding of the objectives required by NABCEP."	1	cert
6	Economics of Sustainability	"Understand global sustainability issues and the economic impacts of population, food supply, pollution, forests, and energy in general. "	1	cert
6	Green Building Design	Green design is not merely an attachment or supplement to architectural design; it is an integrated and multi-disciplinary process that moves development towards a more sustainable model. 	1	cert
6	Public Policy Lecture Series: Sustainability Issues in Southern California	This lecture series explores public policy alternatives for fostering development reform and its potential economic and environmental impacts on communities in southern California.	1	cert
6	"Sustainable Planning, Design and Development"	"Both urban and rural planning can benefit from including sustainability as a central criterion when designing roads, streets, buildings, and other components of the built environment. "	1	cert
6	Sustainable Resource Management	"The current concerns about climate change, renewable energy supply, low-carbon economy, and solid resources, with emphasis on the sustainable management of water."	1	cert
6	Trends in Energy Efficiencies and Technologies		1	cert
6	Green Construction and Building Methods	Life-cycle-based materials selection tools for better decision making in relation to their energy and environmental impacts and benefits.	1	cert
6	Planning Strategies for Sustainable Food Systems	"Food systems planning strategies for more sustainable and self-reliant communities. You will review each phase within a food system, including production, processing and distribution; consumption and waste; best practices, promoting closed-loop resource recovery systems; and case studies"	1	cert
6	Climate Action Planning	"Case law, state regulations and science are driving the development of climate action planning. You will discuss global climate change and the consequences; direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions; reducing emissions measures; adaptation strategies; "	1	cert
6	Sustainable Interior Design	"Teaches designers and consumers the fundamental principles and benefits of sustainable interior design. Designed to equip you with a systematic strategy for assessing the degree of sustainability and cost effectiveness of green design products. A thorough exploration of eco-friendly materials, energy saving appliances, and their sources will be covered. "	1	cert
6	Public Health and the Built Environment	"Examine public health issues that are grounded in and addressed by development patterns and urban form. Learn about the ongoing research, and how the relationship between land use and urban form affect personal activity, healthy food availability, air quality, access to health facilities, and safety."	1	twoyear
6	Energy and the Environment		1	twoyear
6	Linear Systems and Control		1	twoyear
6	Feedback Control		1	twoyear
6	Introduction to Mechatronics		1	twoyear
6	Introduction to Microelectromechanical Systems		1	twoyear
6	Introduction to Communication System		1	twoyear
6	Power Electronic		1	twoyear
6	"Data Acquisition, Instrumentation, and Process Control"		1	twoyear
6	Automatic Control		1	twoyear
6	Introduction to Robotic		1	twoyear
6	Digital Communication		1	twoyear
6	Introduction to Digital Control		1	twoyear
6	Fiber-Optic Communication System		1	twoyear
6	Digital Communication Theory and System		1	twoyear
6	Wireless Communication		1	twoyear
6	Linear System Theory		1	twoyear
6	Nonlinear Systems and Control		1	twoyear
6	Software Construction		1	twoyear
6	Introduction to Embedded Systems		1	twoyear
6	Intermediate Embedded and Real-Time Systems		1	twoyear
6	Advanced Embedded and Real-Time Systems		1	twoyear
6	Computer Networks		1	twoyear
6	Computer Security 		1	twoyear
6	Database Management Systems		1	twoyear
6	Mobile Wireless Networks		1	twoyear
6	Introduction to Software Engineering		1	twoyear
6	Advanced Computer Networks		1	twoyear
6	Testing and Verification Techniques in Software Engineering		1	twoyear
6	Database Management Systems		1	twoyear
6	Network Routing		1	twoyear
6	Advanced Topics in Network Measurements and Security		1	twoyear
6	Software Evolution		1	twoyear
6	Advanced Verification Techniques in Software Engineering		1	twoyear
6	Distributed Systems		1	twoyear
6	Computer Security		1	twoyear
6	Wireless Networks and Mobile Computing		1	twoyear
6	Green Engineering		1	twoyear
7	HVAC DDC Basics	"Covering the basics of Heating, Ventilating and Air Conditioning (HVAC) Direct Digital Controls (DDC), this course enables students to understand the simple basic fundamentals of HVAC DDC Systems Design."	1	cert
7	HVAC DDC System Design	"Explore heating, ventilating, and air conditioning (HVAC) and direct digital control (DDC) system design and application. The course reviews air handling, chilled water, and hot water systems control for constant volume and Variable Air Volume (VAV) applications. "	1	cert
7	HVAC Design Calculations	"Learn the fundamentals and required calculations for the HVAC design of buildings. Topics include: cooling and heating load calculations for commercial/residential buildings, psychometric chart analysis, HVAC energy, and return on investment analysis."	1	cert
7	HVAC DDC Networking Design	Course focuses on practical scenarios of communication and networking between DDC controllers and DDC systems.	1	cert
7	HVAC Systems Design	"Practical course is divide into single topics. Each lecture is followed by problem-solving and practical applications session. Topics include HVAC systems, air distribution systems, fan curves and fan selection, piping design."	1	cert
7	Wind Energy Principles and  Applications	"Discover the basics of wind energy systems and wind turbine design. This course will expand on the knowledge base to current renewable energy professionals and provide others interested in careers in wind energy whether in wind turbine design, procurement, resource assessment, plant design, development, or plant maintenance."	1	twoyear
7	Solar Energy Principles and Applications	"The principles of photovoltaic’s - components, electrical terminology, energy and voltage calculations, wiring, and variables affecting output - will be discussed. In addition, you will also learn about the operation of solar systems, site analysis, and the critical factors required for a location to be ideal, and what factors impact the dramatically increasing Return on Investment (ROI). You will also review the vast array of incentives available for residents and businesses. The class will also view an active solar installation."	1	twoyear
7	Introduction to Energy Systems		1	twoyear
7	Introduction to Renewable Energy: Solar and Wind  		1	twoyear
7	Introduction to Nuclear Energy		1	twoyear
7	Environmental Challenges: Science and Solutions		1	twoyear
7	Case Studies In Environmental Engineering		1	twoyear
7	Environmental Engineering Laboratory I		1	twoyear
7	Environmental Engineering Laboratory II		1	twoyear
7	Linear Control		1	twoyear
7	Digital Control Systems		1	twoyear
7	Sensor Networks		1	twoyear
7	Mechanical Engineering Laboratory II		1	twoyear
7	Advances in Control Applications		1	twoyear
7	Boundary Layer and Renewable Energy Meteorology		1	twoyear
7	Energy Materials and Applications		1	twoyear
7	Linear Systems Theory		1	twoyear
7	Linear Control Design		1	twoyear
7	Nonlinear Control		1	twoyear
7	Adaptive Control		1	twoyear
7	Approximate Identification and Control		1	twoyear
7	Robust and Multi-Variable Control		1	twoyear
7	Hybrid Systems		1	twoyear
7	Control of Distributed Parameter Systems		1	twoyear
7	Communications Systems I		1	twoyear
7	Communications Systems II		1	twoyear
7	Communications Systems III		1	twoyear
7	Digital Recording Projects I		1	twoyear
7	Digital Recording Projects II		1	twoyear
7	Sensor Networks		1	twoyear
7	Communications Systems Laboratory I		1	twoyear
7	Communications Systems Laboratory II		1	twoyear
7	Principles of Wireless Networks		1	twoyear
7	Stochastic Wireless Networks Models		1	twoyear
7	Digital Communication		1	twoyear
7	Digital Communication		1	twoyear
7	Communication Circuit Design I		1	twoyear
7	Communication Circuit Design II		1	twoyear
7	Power Amplifiers for Wireless Communications		1	twoyear
7	Wireless Embedded and Networked Systems		1	twoyear
7	Introduction to Modern Cryptography		1	twoyear
7	Software Engineering		1	twoyear
7	Advanced Software Engineering		1	twoyear
7	Computer Networks		1	twoyear
7	Introduction to Computer Security		1	twoyear
7	Database System Principles		1	twoyear
7	Database Systems Applications		1	twoyear
7	Molecular Sequence Analysis		1	twoyear
7	Lattice Algorithms and Applications		1	twoyear
7	Modern Cryptography		1	twoyear
7	Advanced Cryptography		1	twoyear
7	Principles of Software Engineering		1	twoyear
7	Computer Communication Networks		1	twoyear
7	Internet Algorithmics		1	twoyear
7	Principles of Distributed Computing		1	twoyear
7	Distributed Computing and Systems		1	twoyear
7	Storage Systems		1	twoyear
7	Computer Security		1	twoyear
7	Principles of Database Systems		1	twoyear
7	Database System Implementation		1	twoyear
7	Database Theory		1	twoyear
7	Environmental Challenges: Science and Solutions		1	twoyear
7	Environmental Challenges: Science and Solutions		1	twoyear
7	Economics of the Environment		1	twoyear
7	Energy Economics		1	twoyear
7	Topics in Environmental and Resource Economics		1	twoyear
8	Sustainability: A Green Building Overview	" This introductory course covers the importance of, and provides an overview of, basic green building principles and practices. This introductory course covers the importance of, and provides an overview of, basic green building principles and practices"	1	cert
8	Energy Sources: Their End Uses and Impacts	"Introduces the basics of energy generation, energy consumption, and resulting impacts. This knowledge will help garner a better understanding of energy use as a system and offers valuable insight in how and why our buildings work the way they do"	1	cert
8	Green Building Materials	"Course introduces students to the utilization of green materials and their significance in today's building practices in home design and construction. Through lectures and site visits, students gain exposure to real green building projects, products, and professionals in the field."	1	cert
8	Waste Management and Green Purchasing	"Course helps students identify waste management strategies, notice patterns of acquisition and disposal, and make sound choices when it comes to purchasing new items and disposing of old ones."	1	cert
8	Sustainable Water Management	"Students gain a better understanding of water sources and delivery mechanisms, consumption patterns, treatment options, and a variety of demand management strategies."	1	cert
8	Sustainable Planning and Site Design	"Site location and development can be just as critical to good sustainable design as the building itself. Through lectures, case studies, and site visits, students learn about the environmental, physical, and social aspects of sustainable planning and site design."	1	cert
8	Mechatronics		1	twoyear
8	Energy		1	twoyear
8	Advanced Thermal Science		1	twoyear
8	Control System Design		1	twoyear
8	Control System Design		1	twoyear
8	Computer Aided Design and Manufacturing		1	twoyear
8	Nonlinear Control Systems		1	twoyear
8	Nonlinear Control Design		1	twoyear
8	Linear Systems I		1	twoyear
8	Linear Systems II		1	twoyear
8	Introductory Robust Control with Applications		1	twoyear
8	Communication Electronics		1	twoyear
8	Communication Electronics II		1	twoyear
8	Communication Electronics III		1	twoyear
8	Feedback Control Systems - Theory and Design		1	twoyear
8	Digital Control Systems - Theory and Design		1	twoyear
8	Control System Design Project		1	twoyear
8	Sensor and Peripheral Interface Design		1	twoyear
8	Introduction to Computer Networks		1	twoyear
8	Network Computing		1	twoyear
8	"THz Science, Technology, and Systems"		1	twoyear
8	Communication Electronics III		1	twoyear
8	Hybrid Systems		1	twoyear
8	Linear Systems I		1	twoyear
8	Linear Systems II		1	twoyear
8	Introductory Robust Control with Applications		1	twoyear
8	"Modeling, Identification, and Validation for Control"		1	twoyear
8	Nonlinear Control Systems		1	twoyear
8	Nonlinear Control Design		1	twoyear
8	Advanced Control Design Laboratory		1	twoyear
8	Digital Communication Theory		1	twoyear
8	Advanced Digital Communication Theory		1	twoyear
8	Adaptive Control Systems		1	twoyear
8	Wireless Communication and Networking		1	twoyear
8	Internet Computing and Web Technologies		1	twoyear
8	Optimal Control of Dynamic Systems		1	twoyear
8	Software Engineering		1	twoyear
8	Fundamentals of Database Systems		1	twoyear
8	Design and Implementation Techniques of Database Systems		1	twoyear
8	Introduction to Computer Communication Networks		1	twoyear
8	Network Computing		1	twoyear
8	Advanced Topics in Internet Computing		1	twoyear
8	Computer Security		1	twoyear
8	Introduction to Cryptography		1	twoyear
8	Logic and Applications in Computer Science		1	twoyear
8	Advanced Topics in Database Systems		1	twoyear
8	Advanced Topics in Networking		1	twoyear
8	Advanced Topics in Security		1	twoyear
8	Economics of Environmental Management		1	twoyear
8	Data Analysis for Environmental Science and Management		1	twoyear
8	Data Analysis for Environmental Science and Management		1	twoyear
8	Environmental Law and Policy		1	twoyear
8	Remote Sensing of the Environment		1	twoyear
8	Energy and Resource Productivity		1	twoyear
9	Renewable Energy Sources		1	twoyear
9	Technological Innovation and Environmental Challenges		1	twoyear
9	Introduction to Optoelectronics and Photonics		1	twoyear
9	Communications Systems		1	twoyear
9	Introduction to Wireless Communications		1	twoyear
9	Feedback Control Systems		1	twoyear
9	Energy Generation and Control		1	twoyear
9	Energy Generation and Control Laboratory		1	twoyear
9	Energy Conservation and Control		1	twoyear
9	Energy Conversion and Control Laboratory		1	twoyear
9	Device Electronics		1	twoyear
9	Advanced Renewable Energy Sources		1	twoyear
9	Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems (MEMS) Design		1	twoyear
9	Introduction to Feedback Control Systems		1	twoyear
9	Principles of Digital Communications		1	twoyear
9	Wireless Communications		1	twoyear
9	Multi-User Information Theory		1	twoyear
9	Multiple-Antenna Wireless Communications		1	twoyear
9	Software Methodology		1	twoyear
9	Software Design Project		1	twoyear
9	Computer Security		1	twoyear
9	Data Storage Systems		1	twoyear
9	Database Systems I		1	twoyear
9	Database Systems		1	twoyear
9	Database Systems II		1	twoyear
9	Introduction to Database Management Systems		1	twoyear
9	Advanced Computer Security		1	twoyear
9	Storage Systems		1	twoyear
9	Distributed Systems		1	twoyear
9	Principles of Database Systems		1	twoyear
9	Design and Implementation of Database Systems		1	twoyear
9	Cryptography and Computer Security		1	twoyear
9	Introduction to Networking and the Internet		1	twoyear
9	Introduction to Mechatronics		1	twoyear
9	Introduction to Mechatronics Laboratory		1	twoyear
9	Introduction to Computer Networks		1	twoyear
9	Introduction to Computer Networks Laboratory		1	twoyear
9	Advanced Computer Networks		1	twoyear
9	Advanced Computer Networks Laboratory		1	twoyear
9	Sensing and Sensor Technologies		1	twoyear
9	Sensing and Sensor Technologies Lab		1	twoyear
9	Mechatronics		1	twoyear
9	Mechatronics Lab		1	twoyear
9	Introduction to Feedback Control Systems		1	twoyear
9	Applied Feedback Control		1	twoyear
9	Computer Networks		1	twoyear
9	Principles of Computer Communication		1	twoyear
9	Network Security		1	twoyear
9	High Speed Computer Networks		1	twoyear
9	Design Project in Computer Networks		1	twoyear
9	Wireless and Mobile Networks		1	twoyear
9	Sensor Networks		1	twoyear
9	Environmental Policy and Economics		1	twoyear
9	Ecological Economics		1	twoyear
9	Green Building Design		1	twoyear
9	Public Policy and Conservation		1	twoyear
10	Internet Programming and Web Design		1	twoyear
10	Algorithm Analysis and Design		1	twoyear
10	Introduction to Digital Forensics		1	twoyear
10	Database Systems		1	twoyear
10	Database Systems		1	twoyear
10	"Java :  Client ,  Server,   and   Internet Programming"		1	twoyear
10	Embedded Systems		1	twoyear
10	"Instrumentation ,  Control , and  Data Acquisition"		1	twoyear
10	Advanced Database Systems		1	twoyear
10	Advanced  Computer  Networks   and Computer Security		1	twoyear
10	Linear Systems		1	twoyear
10	Embedded System		1	twoyear
10	Digital Communication		1	twoyear
10	"Instrumentation ,  Control , and  Data Acquisition"		1	twoyear
10	Introduction to Control Theory		1	twoyear
10	Introduction to Control Theory		1	twoyear
11	Web Development		1	twoyear
11	Introduction To Software Engineering		1	twoyear
11	Distributed Computing		1	twoyear
11	Database Theory  And Design		1	twoyear
11	Computer System Security		1	twoyear
11	Computer Networks		1	twoyear
11	Human-Computer Interaction		1	twoyear
11	Advanced Database Systems		1	twoyear
11	Security		1	twoyear
11	Network Computing		1	twoyear
11	Advanced Software  Engineering 		1	twoyear
11	Web Programming		1	twoyear
11	Ecommerce		1	twoyear
11	Web Intelligence 		1	twoyear
11	Foundations In Physical Science		1	twoyear
11	Energy And Society		1	twoyear
12	Introduction to Databases		1	twoyear
12	Computer Security		1	twoyear
12	Web Programming Fundamentals		1	twoyear
12	Advanced Computer Security		1	twoyear
12	Advanced Database Management Systems		1	twoyear
12	Database Administration II: Advanced Tuning and Recovery		1	twoyear
12	Introduction to Computer Networks and Network Management		1	twoyear
12	Software Engineering		1	twoyear
12	Distributed Computing		1	twoyear
12	Software Engineering		1	twoyear
12	Topics in Software Engineering		1	twoyear
12	Advanced Database Architecture and Administration I		1	twoyear
12	Advanced Network Management		1	twoyear
12	Advanced Computer Networks		1	twoyear
12	Topics in Networking		1	twoyear
12	Topics in Database Systems		1	twoyear
12	Communication Systems Design		1	twoyear
12	Control System Design		1	twoyear
12	Adaptive Control Systems		1	twoyear
12	Measurements and Instrumentation		1	twoyear
12	Control System Design		1	twoyear
12	Energy Systems		1	twoyear
12	Air Pollution Control		1	twoyear
12	Building Energy Analysis and Design		1	twoyear
13	Solar Installation Certificate	"This class is an introduction to some of the latest techniques and standardizations for installing solar power systems. Half of this course is hands-on using tools of the trade to familiarize students with the workload and character of this industry. The other half is focused on exposing students to the tactical decisions, processes, and material choices common to this industry."	1	cert
13	Wind Energy Professional	"This entry-level Wind Energy Professional Online Training Program prepares you for a career in the wind energy industry. This online certificate program is offered in partnership with major colleges, universities, and other accredited education providers."	1	cert
13	Solar Power Professional	"In this program, you'll learn the fundamentals of photovoltaic solar powered energy systems, gaining the knowledge you'll need for an entry level position with a dealer, installer, or other photovoltaic industry company."	1	cert
13	Dynamic Web Programming		1	twoyear
13	Computers and Society 		1	twoyear
13	Computer Networks		1	twoyear
13	Data Management		1	twoyear
13	World Wide Web Design and Management		1	twoyear
13	Security Engineering		1	twoyear
13	Software Engineering		1	twoyear
13	Human Computer Interaction and Interface Design		1	twoyear
13	Data Communications and Computer Networks 		1	twoyear
13	Advanced Database Management Systems		1	twoyear
13	Information Assurance and Network Security		1	twoyear
13	Advanced Software Engineering		1	twoyear
13	Software Engineering Processes		1	twoyear
13	Software Project Planning and Management		1	twoyear
13	Advanced Software Quality Assurance		1	twoyear
13	Software Project Management		1	twoyear
13	PC Forensic		1	twoyear
13	Communication Systems Security 		1	twoyear
13	OS Security		1	twoyear
13	Network Security and Hacking Prevention		1	twoyear
14	HVAC Technician Certificate	"TheThe modules cover specific HVACR concepts by incorporating a presentation that utilizes some or all of the following: text reading assignments, Web site tours, applied exercises, inline quizzes, industry terminology definitions, video clips, animations, images, handouts, and a 20-question module final exam. All courses include a midterm and a final exam. Students also will learn from a 28-year HVAC/R veteran who is a pioneer in online HVAC/R training and the project director of the industry web site HVACReducation.net. "	1	cert
14	Certified Green Supply Chain Professional	"This professional certification program will help you learn the essentials of green product standards and labeling, how to develop sustainability supplier programs, understand sustainable business practices, apply “lean” & “green” manufacturing strategies, and how to integrate green supply chain practices across the extended supply chain. "	1	cert
14	Wind Energy Professional	"This entry level Wind Energy Professional Course prepares you for a career in the wind energy industry. Students will learn the basics of wind energy principles including wind technology, wind energy anatomy, wind farm design, wind business, and characteristics of energy sources. This course covers the fundamentals of hydraulics and basic theory and practice of electrical circuits, including calculations as applied to alternating and direct currents. "	1	cert
14	Communications Network Analysis and Design 		1	twoyear
14	Broadband Networks and Communications		1	twoyear
14	Software Engineering of Web-Based Systems		1	twoyear
14	Advanced WWW Software Development		1	twoyear
14	Network Securit		1	twoyear
14	"Security in Mobile, Wireless, Grid and Pervasive Computing"		1	twoyear
14	Network Management 		1	twoyear
14	Wireless and Mobile Networking Architecture		1	twoyear
14	Data Communication and Networking 		1	twoyear
14	Software Engineering I		1	twoyear
14	Computer Networks		1	twoyear
14	Network Operations and Administration		1	twoyear
14	Broadband Networks and Communications		1	twoyear
14	Wireless and Mobile Networking		1	twoyear
14	Quality Engineering 		1	twoyear
14	Project Management		1	twoyear
14	Web Site Development 		1	twoyear
14	Introduction to Systems Programming		1	twoyear
14	Software Engineering II 		1	twoyear
14	Software Testing and Quality Assurance 		1	twoyear
14	Building Secure Software		1	twoyear
14	Principles of Network Security		1	twoyear
14	Database Architecture		1	twoyear
14	Human-Computer Interaction 		1	twoyear
14	Advanced Software Engineering		1	twoyear
14	Software Engineering of Web-Based Systems		1	twoyear
14	Secure Software Development		1	twoyear
14	Cryptography and Data Security		1	twoyear
14	Advanced WWW Software Development		1	twoyear
14	Network Security		1	twoyear
14	"Security in Wireless, Mobile, Grid and Pervasive Computing"		1	twoyear
14	Communication Network Analysis and Design		1	twoyear
14	Network Management		1	twoyear
14	Broadband and Multimedia Networks		1	twoyear
14	Wireless and Mobile Network Architecture		1	twoyear
14	Database Systems		1	twoyear
15	Energy Systems Design		1	twoyear
15	Electromechanical Systems and Energy Conversion		1	twoyear
15	Electromechanical Systems and Energy Conversion Laboratory		1	twoyear
15	Electrical Power Systems		1	twoyear
15	Power Systems Protection and Control		1	twoyear
15	Power Electronics		1	twoyear
15	Control Systems		1	twoyear
15	Optimal Control Systems		1	twoyear
15	Power Systems Dynamics		1	twoyear
15	Database Systems		1	twoyear
15	Internetworking Systems and Protocols		1	twoyear
15	Advanced Database Systems		1	twoyear
16	Certificate in Green Data Center Management	"The Certificate in Green Data Center Management is designed to enhance the professional development of data center managers.  The Certificate in Green Data Center Management consists of three required courses totaling 42 hours of lecture and discussion. The certificate graduate will receive 4.2 Continuing Education Units (CEUs), a nationally recognized unit used for professional development."	1	cert
16	Dynamic Systems and Controls Lab		1	twoyear
16	Energy and Power Lab		1	twoyear
16	Dynamic Systems and Controls Lab		1	twoyear
16	Energy and Power Lab		1	twoyear
16	Data Security and Encryption Technique		1	twoyear
16	Introduction to Grid Computing		1	twoyear
16	Advanced Database Management		1	twoyear
16	Advanced Computer Networking		1	twoyear
16	Power Laboratory		1	twoyear
16	Feedback Control System		1	twoyear
16	Electronic Communication System		1	twoyear
16	Computer Networks and the Internet		1	twoyear
20	Computer Science 	"This program is a comprehensive exposure to programming languages, algorithms and problem solving in preparation for upper division computer science courses. The Computer Science degree includes substantial course work in mathematics as is required by most university computer science programs."	1	twoyear
20	Database Management 	"The CIS: Database Management degree focuses on relational database technology used in the business environment. The emphasis is on selecting the appropriate system platform for database deployment. Course work includes database system design and programming for desktop, enterprise and Internet platforms, structure query language (SQL) programming, introductory principles of modular programming, system design and problem solving, desktop operating systems, electronic spreadsheets and a variety of introductory business courses. The CIS: Database Management certificate involves the study of relational database technology used in the business environment. The emphasis is on selecting the appropriate system platform for database deployment. Course work includes database system design and programming for desktop, enterprise and Internet platforms, structure query language (SQL) programming, introductory principles of modular programming, system design and problem solving, desktop operating systems, and electronic spreadsheets."	1	cert
20	Microcomputer Application 	"This degree focuses on the use of the microcomputer and current, commonly used software to solve problems in a business environment. Course work includes microcomputer applications in database management, desktop publishing, electronic spreadsheets, presentation graphics, operating systems, word processing, and at least one programming language."	1	twoyear
20	Microcomputer Application 	"This degree focuses on the use of the microcomputer and current, commonly used software to solve problems in a business environment. Course work includes microcomputer applications in database management, desktop publishing, electronic spreadsheets, presentation graphics, operating systems, word processing, and at least one programming language."	1	cert
20	Information System Security 	"This program provides the information and skills necessary for network administration professionals to implement security from internal and external threats for an enterprise network. It covers client and server security on different operating systems, disaster recovery planning, and forensics. This program also provides preparation for several computer information security certification exams, including the Computer Technology Industry Association CompTIA) Security+ exam, Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE) exams and several of the Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) certification exams."	1	twoyear
20	Information System Security 	"This program provides the information and skills necessary for network administration professionals to implement security from internal and external threats for an enterprise network. It covers client and server security on different operating systems, disaster recovery planning, and forensics. This program also provides preparation for several computer information security certification exams, including the Computer Technology Industry Association CompTIA) Security+ exam, Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE) exams and several of the Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) certification exams."	1	cert
20	Engineering / Engineering Technology 	"ARC’s program provides the foundation in mathematics, physics, and engineering necessary to transfer to a four-year institution and complete a bachelor’s degree in engineering.  Students should consult the institution to which they wish to transfer for the specific lower division requirements. This degree and certificate emphasizes the knowledge and skills required for entry level success in the engineering professions. These include a basic preparation within the scientific fields including physics, mathematics, chemistry, and material sciences. These sciences are applied to technical analysis and graphic communication standards and practices. In addition, projects include environmental and sustainable design issues, product economics, and legal considerations. Current computer technologies and various analytical design and documentation software are emphasized throughout the program."	1	twoyear
20	Electronic Systems Technology 	"The Electronics Systems Technology Degree or Certificate combines broad-based electronic and telecommunications training with specialty areas such as robotics, fiber optics, programmable interface controllers (PICs), and stamp micro-controllers."	1	twoyear
20	Mechatronics	"This degree or certificate provides training in a multi-disciplinary field of which the primary focus is industrial automation. Topics such as electricity, electronics, industrial motor controls, programmable logic controllers, robotics, AC/DC drives, mechanical design, and manufacturing technologies are covered."	1	twoyear
20	Mechatronics	"This degree or certificate provides training in a multi-disciplinary field of which the primary focus is industrial automation. Topics such as electricity, electronics, industrial motor controls, programmable logic controllers, robotics, AC/DC drives, mechanical design, and manufacturing technologies are covered."	1	cert
20	Digital Home Technology Integrator 	"This certificate provides training to configure, integrate, maintain, and troubleshoot electronic and digital home integration systems. Coursework provides the essential skills for residential networking concepts, components, and information on home network installation. This includes techniques to install, trim, terminate, and troubleshoot cabling systems. In addition, it provides the training and skills necessary to integrate audio, security and environmental controls in a complete system."	1	cert
20	"Solar Energy System Design, Estimation, and Sales "	"The Solar Energy Systems Design, Estimation, and Sales certificate provides training in all aspects of solar photovoltaic (PV) system design, cost estimation, sales, and installation. It also includes training in oral presentations and management skills. The courses included in the certificate also qualify students to take the North American Board of Certified Energy Practitioners (NABCEP) PV Entry Level Certificate of Knowledge Exam.  "	1	cert
20	Solar Energy Technology 	"The Solar Energy Technology certificate provides training in all aspects of Solar Photovoltaic (PV) System design, installation, troubleshooting and repair. The courses included in the certificate also qualify students to take the North American Board of Certified Energy Practitioners (NABCEP) PV Entry Level Certificate of Knowledge Exam."	1	cert
21	Biotechnology Associate Degree and Certificate	"Biotechnology draws from many disciplines including genetics, biochemistry, and molecular biology. Recent advances in biotechnology have resulted in the development of products that are having a positive impact on our health, food, and environment. Berkeley City College’s program, which integrates academic and occupational instruction, prepares you for entry-level employment as a bioscience technician in this exciting field. When you finish the two-year program in biotechnology, you will earn either an Associate in Science degree or a Certificate of Achievement. The Associate in Science degree requires the completion of 61units; the Certificate of Achievement requires 48 units."	1	cert
21	Intro to Instrumentation II	"Continuation of BIOL 230A: Introduction to fermentation, protein purification methodologies, protein assays, bioassays, gel electrophoresis, quality assurance, quality control, good manufacturing practices, survey of biotechnology and research laboratories."	1	twoyear
21	Computer Info Systems Associate Degree and Certificate	"Whether you are a beginning or an advanced computer student, the courses in the Computer Information Systems/Applied Microcomputer Information Systems Program provides courses to improve your computer and software knowledge and skills. The CIS Associate in Science degree enables you to develop and/or upgrade your skills for career advancement. The Certificate of Achievement Program qualifies you for entry-level employment in occupational settings that utilize computers and various software applications."	1	cert
21	Intro to Data Communications & Networking	"Introduction to networking and data communications technology: Media, topologies, protocols, network design and implementation and other topics relevant to local and wide area networks; designing, installing, maintaining, and troubleshooting small to medium-sized LANs; preparation for the CompTIA Network+ certification exam."	1	twoyear
21	Web Programming Associate Degree and Certificate	"Introduction to networking and data communications technology: Media, topologies, protocols, network design and implementation and other topics relevant to local and wide area networks; designing, installing, maintaining, and troubleshooting small to medium-sized LANs; preparation for the CompTIA Network+ certification exam."	1	cert
21	Database Programming for the Web	"Web-enabled database concepts: Relational database principles, Structured Query Language"	1	twoyear
22	Computer Information Systems 	"The Computer Information Systems program provides students with the knowledge, skills, and hands-on experience in computer hardware, operating systems, applications, security, networking, and entry-level computer programming. Students will learn the basics of development for the World Wide Web and will gain experience in a variety of computer programming languages. Instruction is available to prepare students to take professional certification exams in the areas of computer hardware, operating systems, applications, security, and networking. The professional certifications include offerings from CompTIA, Cisco, and Microsoft."	1	twoyear
22	Computer Science 	"Students will learn the basics of development for the World Wide Web and will gain experience in a variety of computer programming languages. Instruction is available to prepare students to take professional certification exams in the areas of computer hardware, operating systems, applications, security, and networking. The professional certifications include offerings from CompTIA, Cisco, and Microsoft."	1	twoyear
23	Computer Networking and System Administration Associate Degree	"The Computer Networking and System Administration program is intended to prepare students to work in the Information Technology (IT) industry in general, and more specifically in computer networking and system administration. Courses include the underlying networking concepts and theory, administering the network infrastructure including the Cisco Systems CCNA/CCNP courses, system and network administration using UNIX/Linux and Microsoft operating systems, network security, network management, and emerging technologies."	1	twoyear
23	Computer Networking and System Administration Certificate		1	cert
23	Cisco Certified Network Associate Skills Certificate		1	cert
23	Cisco Certified Network Professional Skills Certificate		1	cert
23	Computer Support Specialist	"The Computer Support Specialist program is designed to help students acquire the knowledge and skills necessary to work in computer technical support positions and prepare for industry certification exams. Students will be able to provide technical support, troubleshooting, training and documentation to internal and external customers. Courses include computer hardware, operating systems, common software utilities, fundamentals of networking and help desk concepts."	1	twoyear
23	Computer Support Specialist Certificate		1	cert
23	A+ Preparation Skills Certificate		1	cert
23	Computer Support technician 1 Skills Certificate		1	cert
23	Computer Science Associate Degree		1	twoyear
23	Computer Engineering Transfer Degree		1	twoyear
23	Computer Science C++ Programming Certificate Degree		1	cert
23	Programming Certificate		1	cert
23	Web Programming Certificate		1	cert
23	Web Programming Fundamentals Skills Certificate		1	cert
23	Engineering Technology Associate Degree		1	twoyear
23	Engineering Certificate		1	cert
23	Networking Fundamentals and Theory	"Presents networking protocols, standars, concepts, and terminology including Ethernet, ARP, ICMP, IP addressing, subnetting, switches, hubs, routers, TCP, UDP, OSI Model and other standards and protocals. First course in the Cisco Networking Academy CCNA curriculum which is a prerequisite for some of the MCSE/MCSA and Linux certification courses. Provides addictional information on networking theory and protocols beyond that of the basic Cisco Netowrking Academy Semester 1 course, leading to a more detailed understanding of networking. May be offered in a Distant-Learning Format."	1	twoyear
23	Intro to Operating Systems	"Covers installing, maintaining, and upgrading PC-type (Intel and Intel compatible) microcomputer systems. Presents the underlying technology and methodology for performing these operations. Introduces networking, PC hardware and software installation, maintenance, safety, troubleshooting, and provides an in-depth exposure to personal computer hardware and desktop operating systems. Helps prepare students to pass the CompTIA A+ industry certification. May be offered in a Distance-Learning Format."	1	twoyear
23	Fundamentals of Computer Security	"Introduces the threats and vulnerabilities of computer systems, and helps prepare for security-related industry certifications such as CompTIA Security+. Topics will include intrusion detection, intrusion prevention, encryption, VPNs, authentication, and implementing security procedures. Treats security not simply as a product to be installed, but as a way of thinking about all aspects of an organization's security needs."	1	twoyear
23	CCNA Security	"Teaches network security principles including firewall technologies, AAA, intrusion prevention, securing LANs, implementing VPNs, and managing secure networks. May be offered in a Distance-Learning Format."	1	twoyear
23	Intro to Computer Hardware and Software	"Covers installing, maintaining, and upgrading PC-type (Intel and Intel compatible) microcomputer systems. Presents the underlying technology and methodology for performing these operations. Introduces networking, PC hardware and software installation, maintenance, safety, troubleshooting, and provides an in-depth exposure to personal computer hardware and desktop operating systems. Helps prepare students to pass the CompTIA A+ industry certification. May be offered in a Distance-Learning Format."	1	twoyear
23	Intro to Routing Technologies and Theory	"Introduces routing technology, routing theory and router configuration including static routes, distance vector and link state routing theory, routing loop issues, VLSM, CIDR, and routing protocols such as RIPv1, RIPv2, EIGRP and Single Area OSPF. Second of four courses in the Cisco Networking Academy CCNA curriculum. Provides hands-on experience configuring Cisco routers, additional information on routing theory and protocols beyond that of the basic Cisco Networking Academy Semester 2 course, leading to a more detailed understanding of routing. May be offered in a Distance-Learning Format."	1	twoyear
23	Switched Networks and WANs 	"Presents intermediate features of switching and WANs including VLANs, VTP, Inter-VLAN routing, STP, Frame Relay, HDLC, PPP, and ACLs. Combines semesters three and four of the Cisco Networking Academy CCNA curriculum. Hands-on experience using Cisco routers and also provides additional information on routing theory and protocols beyond that of the basic Cisco Networking Academy Semester 3 and 4 courses, leading to a more detailed understanding of routing, switching and Wide Area Networks. May be offered in a Distance-Learning Format."	1	twoyear
23	Implementing IP Switching	"Teaches students implementation, monitoring, and maintaining switching in converged enterprise campus networks. Covers planning, configuring, and verifying the implementation of complex enterprise switching solutions. Also covers the secure integration of VLANs, WLANs, voice, and video into campus networks. May be offered in a Distance-Learning Format."	1	twoyear
23	Intro to Client/Server Relational Database Management Systems	"Presents the installation, use, and administration of MySQL Client/Server Relational Database Management Installation along with the use and administration of a Client/Server Relational Database Management System. The design, creation, and administration of enterprise databases are covered, along with performance tuning, security and disaster recovery. Additional topics include: SQL (Structured Query Language), data types, functions, normalization, and a brief introduction to server-level programming and language interfaces for developing database-driven websites, emphasizing PHP systems. May be offered in a Distance-Learning Format."	1	twoyear
23	Intro to Data Structures and Algorithms	"Provides an introduction to data structures, algorithms, and software engineering techniques using the C++ or Java language. Presents the development of large programs including definition, implementation, analysis, use and reuse of abstract data types and associated algorithms. Reviews and elaborates arrays, lists, queues, stacks, sets, trees, priority queues, heaps, tables, hashing, balanced trees, graphs, recursion, searching and sorting. Offered spring only. May be offered in a Distance-Learning Format."	1	twoyear
23	Intro to Internet Programming	"Presents an introduction to Internet-related programming using primarily client-side scripting languages like JavaScript. Also introduces a server-side scripting language like PHP. Covers basic programming techniques including simple data types, control structures, functions and expressions.Topics include Web-based data collection, form verification, and Ajax. May be offered in a Distance-Learning Format."	1	twoyear
23	Intro to Programming Database-Driven Websites with PHP	"Teaches programming of database-driven, web-based applications (such as an eCommerce website) that require online data storage and retrieval and a high degree of user/website interactivity. The web programming environment used is PHP accessing a MySQL database. May be offered in a Distance-Learning Format."	1	twoyear
23	Electromechanical Systems	"Covers the theory and application of mechanical devices and their control circuits. Topics include component recognition, electrical schematic diagrams, hydraulics, pneumatics, AC and DC motors, stepping motors, mechanical drive systems and servomechanisms. Provides hands-on experience with assembly/disassembly operations including maintenance and troubleshooting of small-scale electromechanical, pneumatic, and fluid power systems."	1	twoyear
24	Computer Information Science Associate Degree	"The Computer Information Science Program offers an AS degree and a parallel transfer program. Students who already possess a degree will gain substantial skills in computer sciences through completion of the Core Courses. The major for the AS degree in Computer Information Science consists of 19-21 units of Required Core Courses and 12 units of electives chosen from the list of Supporting Subject Courses which complete the major. Other electives for the AS degree may be chosen freely. To earn the AS degree, students also must complete general education and other graduation requirements."	1	twoyear
24	Programming Methods I: C++/Lab I: C++	"Introduction to computer science and software engineering for majors (CS1) and computer professionals. A systematic approach to the design, implementation, and management of robust C++ computer programs. Course emphasizes object-oriented design, programming documentation, testing and debugging techniques. This course conforms to the ACM CS1 standards."	1	twoyear
24	Programming Methods II: C++/Lab II C++	"Object-Oriented techniques and the C++ programming language are used to create a variety of data structures, and to apply and analyze the relative efficiency of standard algorithms. This course conforms to the ACM CS2 standards."	1	twoyear
24	Engineering Associate Degree	"Engineering is one of the largest professions in the United States with over one million jobs in fields ranging from airplane design to pollution control. The four largest branches of engineering are electrical, mechanical, civil and computer engineering. All branches of engineering place a heavy emphasis on problem solving. Engineering education focuses on teaching scientific and engineering concepts and their application to the creative and effective solution of problems. Career opportunities for practicing engineers include positions in aerospace, agricultural, architectural, biomedical, chemical, civil, computer, electrical, environmental, industrail, materials, mechanical, and nuclear fields. Most engineers work for manufacturing industries, while a smaller percentage work for federal, state and local government agencies, or as private consultants."	1	twoyear
24	Circuits and Devices	"Introduction to theory and techniques of circuit analysis. Topics include resistive circuits, controlled sources, ideal operational amplifiers, first- and second-order transient and steady-state responses, power calculations, and three-phase circuits. MATH 275 is recommended. A minimum of 16 by arrangement lab hours are required."	1	twoyear
25	Computer Science Associate in Art/Science Degrees 	"The Chabot Computer Science Department offers a broad curriculum including both academic and vocational programs. Our academic curriculum is designed primarily to prepare students for transfer to a four year college in Computer Science, Engineering or a related field. Vocational programs include certificates and degrees that provide marketable and up-to-date technical skills. A number of our courses are offered at night or in web-based format to accommodate students with geographic or scheduling constraints."	1	twoyear
25	Computer Literacy 	"Intro to computers including: Microsoft Windows, Microsoft Office, multimedia, using browsers and World Wide Web, types of computer software in use including programming languages, electronic mail, computer-based careers and trends, and other computing issues."	1	twoyear
25	Electronic Systems Technology Associate in Science Degree 	"Chabot offers three programs in Electronic Systems Technology: Certificate in Consumer Technology, Certificate in Industrial Electronic Technology, and AS degree in Electronic Systems Technology. This degree prepares you for entry-level positions in a wide range of industries that use electronics technician skills, including biotechnology, manufacturing, entertainment, automotive and consumer products. Electronic Systems Technology is a key enabler of all of these contemporary industries."	1	twoyear
25	Digital Logic Systems 	"Architecture, programming, application and troubleshooting of complex programmable logic device (CPLD) electronic systems. Includes programming in VHDL. Digital building blocks, number systems, Boolean algebra, combinational and sequential logic, integrated logic families, digital circuit measurement techniques and instrumentation, troubleshooting techniques. "	1	twoyear
25	Engineering Associate in Science Degree 	"The Associate in Science degree is designed to provide the foundation for subsequent transfer to a CSU or UC Engineering program. The core courses fulfill most of the lower division requirements for the majority of CSU and UC engineering majors. The Associate in Science degree, as well as putting students on the path to transfer, ensures that students develop a strong foundation in engineering, mathematics, and the sciences."	1	twoyear
25	Materials of Engineering 	"Application of principles of chemistry and physics to the properties of engineering materials. The relation of microstructure to mechanical, electrical, thermal and optical properties of metals. Solid material phase equilibria and transformations. The physical, chemical, mechanical and optical properties of ceramics, composites, and polymers. Operation and use of materials characterization instruments and methods. "	1	twoyear
25	Consumer Technology Certificate			cert
25	Microcontroller Systems	"Architecture, programming, application and troubleshooting of single-chip microcontroller electronic systems. Digital building blocks, number systems, programming in high-level and assembly language. Interfacing the microcontroller for practical applications, measurement techniques and instrumentation, troubleshooting techniques."	1	twoyear
25	Digital Logic Systems	"Architecture, programming, application and troubleshooting of complex programmable logic device (CPLD) electronic systems. Includes programming in VHDL. Digital building blocks, number systems, Boolean algebra, combinational and sequential logic, integrated logic families, digital circuit measurement techniques and instrumentation, troubleshooting techniques."	1	twoyear
25	Wireless Communication Systems	"Introduction to wireless communications concepts and data communications, including modulation techniques, antenna and wave propagation. Digital data communication fundamentals and digital modulation techniques. Fiber optic and laser technology."	1	twoyear
26	Computer Info Systems Associate Degree and Certificate of Achievement	"The CIS program at College of Alameda prepares you for entry-level business opportunities requiring the use of computer applications, such as word processing, spreadsheet, database management, and geographical information systems (GIS) programs. Our CIS program prepares you for transfer to a university. Advanced students take programming courses, help desk and networking courses, and web publishing courses. We offer beginning and advanced office application courses. We are the only Peralta college to offer help desk (desktop support technician) courses and networking courses. Our web publishing courses, offered as hybrid (with some face to face meetings) as well as online, lead to a certificate of proficiency upon successful completion of the courses. We also offer other online CIS courses which can fit your busy schedule."	1	twoyear
26	Computer Info Systems Associate Degree and Certificate of Achievement	"The CIS program at College of Alameda prepares you for entry-level business opportunities requiring the use of computer applications, such as word processing, spreadsheet, database management, and geographical information systems (GIS) programs. Our CIS program prepares you for transfer to a university. Advanced students take programming courses, help desk and networking courses, and web publishing courses. We offer beginning and advanced office application courses. We are the only Peralta college to offer help desk (desktop support technician) courses and networking courses. Our web publishing courses, offered as hybrid (with some face to face meetings) as well as online, lead to a certificate of proficiency upon successful completion of the courses. We also offer other online CIS courses which can fit your busy schedule."	1	cert
26	Database Management	"Design, implementation, and maintenance of databases: Analysis of user requirements; building tables, queries, forms, reports, and other topics."	1	twoyear
26	Networking Concepts	"Networking concepts: Network architecture, hardware, software, concepts, protocols and standards."	1	twoyear
27	Computer Information System Associate Degree	"The Computer Information Systems curriculum is designed to provide education for computer-related careers, professional advancement, and transfer preparation. Courses provide “hands-on” computer use that emphasizes the development of the skills necessary for employment and personal use of computers. Program specialties include desktop network, desktop publishing, microcomputer manager, and microcomputer programmer."	1	twoyear
27	Intro to Database Design and Programming	This is a first course in the design and installation of a database for personal computers. Students will use a personal computer database software program to create and program database applications.	1	twoyear
27	Networking Essentials	"This course will cover the basic concepts of networks, including hardware, planning, implementation, and troubleshooting through the development of a case study."	1	twoyear
27	Intro to HTML Programming 	"Hypertext Markup Language (HTML) is the language of the World Wide Web. In this class, students will learn how to design, code, and implement Web pages using HTML. The focus of this beginning class will be creating pages with textual and limited inline image data and links for both Internet and local area network Intranet applications."	1	twoyear
27	Desktop Network Specialty Certificate		1	cert
27	Implementing and Administering a Network Infrastructure for a PC Operating System	"This is a course for students who will install, configure, manage, monitor and troubleshoot a network server operating system infrastructure. This course concentrates on the following network services: DHCP, DNS, remote access, network protocols, IP routing and NetBios naming conventions within a network server-based operating environment."	1	twoyear
27	Implementing and Administering a Network Infrastructure for a PC Operating System	"In this course, students install, configure, manage, monitor and troubleshoot Directory Services for a network server operating system. This course concentrates on Directory Services and DNS, security, and Directory Services within a network server-based operating environment."	1	twoyear
27	Computer Network Security Basics 	"This course is designed to prepare the student to support, monitor, configure, and test basic security features applied to personal computer networks. The goal is to provide students with a fundamental understanding of network security. Students explore principles applied in a network, and learn how to implement a variety of security settings for data and services."	1	twoyear
27	Intro to Computer System Hardware	"This course brings students up-to-date with the latest technology covered by the A+ exams. For the more experienced user, the course provides a fresh review and focus on what is required to meet the objectives of the A+ exams."	1	twoyear
27	Computer Operating Systems	"This course brings students up-to-date with the latest operating systems covered by the A+ exams. For the more experienced user, the course provides a fresh review and focus on what is required to meet the objectives of the A+ exams."	1	twoyear
27	Desktop A+ Centered Skills Certificate		1	cert
27	Network Security Skills Certificate		1	cert
27	Electronic Technology Transfer Degree	"Courses in this area provide a limited introduction to electronics and telecommunication technology. They are designed to equip the student with basic terminology, concepts, and some measurement and diagnostic skills."	1	twoyear
27	Fundamentals of Electronics	"Introduction to principles, terminology, and measurements of electrical circuits and electronic systems. Behavior of DC and AC circuits and electronic devices with their applications in automotive, computer, communications, power distribution, and entertainment systems."	1	twoyear
27	Solar Installation and Integration 	"This introductory course is targeted to entry-level photovoltaic installers with the intent to provide a foundation of skills in trades involved in solar installation. The course is separated into three distinct areas: electrical theory and practice, photovoltaic theory, and integration and building trade skills."	1	twoyear
27	Machine and Metals Technology	"Study in the field of machine and metals technology is designed as preparation for entrance into metalworking occupations. Graduates may enter the fields dealing with industrial production, prototype construction, special die work, or research and development. The courses in welding are designed to provide opportunity for the development of skills, knowledge, and experience for employment in the occupation and as auxiliary experience for persons in other majors."	1	twoyear
27	Comp Numerical Control Machining/Mill	A course in the theoretical principles and practical applications of computer numerical control with CAD-CAM applied to the milling machine and machine centers. 	1	twoyear
27	Comp Numerical Control Machining/Lathe	A course in the theoretical principles and practical applications of computer numerical control with CAD-CAM applied to the milling machine and machine centers. 	1	twoyear
27	Computer Science Associate Degree	"Computers play a role in most facets of our daily lives, from our acquisition and use of vast amounts of information throughout the day, to the myriad ways we communicate with each other, to the appliances we use in our home, to our transportation both public and private. The computer science degree program is designed to help students gain the skills necessary to take part in the responsible design and management of our future technology. With an associate degree in computer science, students can transfer to bachelor degree programs in areas such as applied computer science and engineering, computer graphics, computer information systems, and computer information technology.  Computer science students may choose among several paths to meet requirements for the associate degree. There are three entry-level courses, Computer Science 130, 135, and 150 (C++, JAVA, and MATLAB), that each fulfill the requirements for any of the upper-level courses."	1	twoyear
27	Data Structures and Algorithms	"This is a second computer science course after a high-level language programming course, such as C++ or JAVA. Data structures and their implementations as abstract data types are presented, including lists, stacks, queues, trees, graphs, heaps, and hash tables. Some common efficient algorithms for sorting and searching are discussed, and their space- and time-complexities analyzed. An object-oriented approach is emphasized in software designs. The C++ STL framework will be introduced."	1	twoyear
27	Engineering Associate/Transfer Degree	"The Kentfield Campus offers a two-year, lower division Engineering Core Program which, when satisfactorily completed, allows the student to transfer to an engineering program at the four-year college or university. To provide an effective and economical program for lower division engineering education, the State of California has adopted the curriculum developed by the Engineering Liaison Committee of the Articulation Counsel of California. This agreement coordinates the transferable course offerings between community colleges and the four-year colleges and universities in California."	1	twoyear
27	Introductory Engineering Graphics	"This course introduces orthographic and perspective projections, helping the student develop 3D visualization design drawing skills. Students learn industry ANSI and ISO standards used in creating detail and assembly drawings. Auxiliary and section views, mechanical tolerancing and dimensioning are learned through extensive 2D CAD and solid 3D modeling with Inventor. Important teamwork skills are fostered through group projects and documentation of the entire design process."	1	twoyear
27	Electric Circuit Analysis	"An introduction to the theory and analysis of electric circuits, including basic quantities and analytical techniques; network theorems and modeling; natural and forced responses of first- and second order RLC circuits; AC circuit analysis and power calculations; and linear models of common devices such as transistors, operational amplifiers, and transformers."	1	twoyear
27	Engineering Technology Associate Degree	"The engineering technician is a valuable part of the team working together in every branch of modern industry. The work of the technician is “practical,” typically involving surveying, drafting, laboratory testing, and equipment operation and maintenance. At the Kentfield Campus, a core program is suggested for the student who is interested in engineering technology. The student will elect additional courses to further prepare for some specialty such as draftsman, surveyor, engineering maintenance specialist, salesman, shop, or laboratory technician."	1	twoyear
27	Fundamentals of Electronics	"Introduction to principles, terminology, and measurements of electrical circuits and electronic systems. Behavior of DC and AC circuits and electronic devices with their applications in automotive, computer, communications, power distribution, and entertainment systems."	1	twoyear
28	Computer Support Specialist Associate Degree		1	twoyear
28	Database Applications	"An intermediate to advanced level course in database applications using relational database management software. Students will set up, manipulate, and maintain their own databases."	1	twoyear
28	Networking Essentials	"A study of current technologies of local and wide area networks and the Internet. Students will be presented with the OSI model and the TCP/IP protocol in a combined lecture, demonstration, and lab setting."	1	twoyear
28	Network Operating Systems	"A survey of network operating systems used in local area networks, wide area networks, and the Internet. A variety of topics will be covered for several different network operating systems, including network installation, management, and security."	1	twoyear
28	CIS Networking Associate Degree and Certificate		1	cert
28	Network Technician Certificate of Recognition		1	cert
28	Solar Thermal Technician Certificate of Recognition		1	cert
28	Solar Photovoltaic Technician Certificate of Recognition		1	cert
28	Solar Thermal Design and Installation	"An introduction to the design and installation of solar hot water systems. Students in this course will become familiar with solar thermal equipment, terminology, installation and the integration of solar thermal components."	1	twoyear
28	Intro to Solar Thermal Systems	"A course designed to provide students with essential information to work with solar thermal systems including system design and sizing residential projects, system components, estimating installation costs and return on investment, system maintenance and building codes."	1	twoyear
28	Photo-Voltaic Design and Installation	A basic overview of the design and installation of an utility intertie Photo-voltaic system. Successful completion of this course will provide the student with the entry-level skills of a Photo-voltaic system installer.	1	twoyear
28	Intro to Solar Photovoltaic Systems	"A course designed to provide students with essential information and training to work with residential solar photovoltaic systems including providing fundamentals of AC/ DC, the National Electric Code, and principles of a residential solar photovoltaic systems. The course content is aligned with the North American Board for Certified Energy Practitioners (NABCEP) PV Entry Level Exam. Students will be given the opportunity to sit for the NABCEP exam at the conclusion of the course."	1	twoyear
29	Data Structures: Java	"Abstract data type implementation and usage techniques for computer science majors and computer professionals. Object-oriented approach to a variety of abstract data types including: lists, stacks, queues, priority queues, trees, maps, sets and graphs.  Also includes advanced sorting and searching topics, and algorithmic analysis using Big-O notation. "	1	twoyear
29	Data Structures: C++	"Data abstract data type implementation and usage techniques for computer science majors and computer professionals. Object-oriented approach to a variety of abstract data types including: lists, stacks, queues, priority queues, trees, maps and graphs. Also includes advanced sorting and searching topics and algorithmic analysis using Big-O notation. "	1	twoyear
29	Networks and Digital Communications	"Introduction to networking focusing on Local Area Networks. Topics include the TCP/IP suite of protocols and its relationship to the OSI reference model, network services, network hardware and topologies, network protocol usage fundaments, IP network addressing, current industry trends including IPv6 and an introduction to network administration. "	1	twoyear
29	Network Security Fundamentals	"Analysis, risk assessment and strategy for designing network security for the Windows network environment."	1	twoyear
29	Computer Forensics: Network Analysis and Defense	"Comprehensive course that includes an overview of the foundations of network security, an introduction to protocol analysis, network security risk analysis, use of risk analysis to develop a network security policies, an overview of firewalls and VPNs, using and configuring intrusion detection systems, responding to network intrusions, preventing network intrusions, and managing and improving network defense."	1	twoyear
29	Computer Forensics: Search and Seizure	"Comprehensive course that includes an overview of computer crime, federal and state guidelines for computer search and seizure, the chain of custody, computer forensics in law enforcement and corporate environments, exercises in digital evidence discovery using forensic hardware and software, special media forensics, documentation, warrants and investigation reports, presentation in court, case studies, and advanced topics such as cryptography, steganography, hostile code and Internet forensics. "	1	twoyear
29	Intro to Electronics Fundamentals	"Introduction to DC and AC electricity, reading simple schematic diagrams and construction of elementary electrical/electronics circuits, making measurements with multimeters and oscilloscopes, using DC power supplies and AC power sources, exploration of basic digital principles. "	1	twoyear
29	Enterprise Database Management with MySQL	"Comprehensive course in enterprise database management with the open-source MySQL database. Covers relational model and theory, forms and theories of normalization, and in-depth SQL"	1	twoyear
29	Fundamentals of Electric Motor Control	"Theory, construction, and operation of fractional and multi-horse power DC and AC electric motors. Various types of motor controls are investigated including start/brake/stop switching, forward/reverse switching and speed control systems."	1	twoyear
29	Sensors and Data Transmission Systems	"A practical course in industrial measurement of temperature, flow, pressure, and level focusing on their physical basis and fundamental laws.  Application concepts in industrial instrumentation systems, sensor troubleshooting, and factors with influence sensor and system accuracy, performance, and calibration are described while stressing basic sensor theory of operation, faults and calibration. "	1	twoyear
29	D.C. Electronics	"Study of direct current and its effect on resistors, inductors, and capacitors. The nature of electricity, resistance, basic circuit laws, Ohm’s Law, magnetism, inductance, capacitance, and the use of power supplies, multimeters, and oscilloscopes. "	1	twoyear
29	A.C. Electronics	"Study of alternating current and its effect on resistors, inductors and capacitors. The nature of AC, AC and resistance, inductive and capacitive reactance, transformers, resonance, and the use of power supplies, multimeters, and oscilloscopes."	1	twoyear
29	Solar Energy Fundamentals	"This course covers the fundamentals of solar energy production, including both thermal and photovoltaic technologies.  Included will be an overview of applicable electrical principles, and coverage of the components included in off-grid and grid interactive systems. "	1	twoyear
29	Circuits and Devices	"Introduction to circuits. Natural and forced response, networks theorems, characteristics and circuit models of electronic devices including transistors and diodes. "	1	twoyear
29	Engineering Graphics	"Introduction to graphical communication and design for engineers. Engineering design, visualization, sketching, orthographic projection, formal engineering drawings, descriptive geometry, manufacturing processes, dimensioning, tolerancing."	1	twoyear
29	Computer and Information Science Associate Degree		1	twoyear
29	Computer and Network Forensics Associate Degree and Certificate		1	twoyear
29	Computer and Network Forensics Associate Degree and Certificate		1	cert
29	Computer Science Applications and Development Associate Degree and Certificate 		1	twoyear
29	Computer Science Applications and Development Associate Degree and Certificate 		1	cert
29	Computer Support Specialist: Network Support Associate Degree and Certificate		1	twoyear
29	Computer Support Specialist: Network Support Associate Degree and Certificate		1	cert
29	CIS Network Security Specialist Certificate 		1	cert
29	Computer Forensics Certificate 		1	cert
29	Internet Programming Certificate 		1	cert
29	Electrical Technology: Electrical Power Systems and Instrumentation Certificate		1	cert
29	Electronics Technology: Industrial Electronics Associate Degree and Certificate		1	cert
29	Electronics Technology: Industrial Electronics Associate Degree and Certificate		1	twoyear
29	Engineering Technology Associate Degree		1	twoyear
30	Database Processing	"This is a basic course in desktop publishing where students will learn the essentials of design, typography, graphics and text using Adobe Software to produce materials for businesses."	1	twoyear
30	Computer Operating Systems	Computer Operating Systems is designed to provide a theoretical and practical background to utilizing computer operating systems tools and accessories.	1	twoyear
30	Electricity and Controls for HVAC	"Electronics & Controls for HVAC is a basic course in electrical theory and applications of controls for the heating, ventilating, air conditioning/refrigeration controls class. The theories and concepts of Ohms and Kirchoffs laws are studied extensively in this course, in addition to the theories and concepts of refrigeration."	1	twoyear
30	Intro to Engineering	"An exploration of the engineering profession, including engineering disciplines and career opportunities, ethical and legal aspects of the profession, educational requirements and an introduction to engineering problem-solving and the design process. This course is approved for Distance Education format."	1	twoyear
30	PC Troubleshooting and Repair	"This course will introduce students to the methods used to upgrade and repair personal computers. Topics include: how to identify parts of the PC, software and hardware tools for repairing PCs, adding and removing components, loading operating systems and software applications, and PC troubleshooting."	1	twoyear
30	Comp Networking Fundamentals	"This course is an introduction to computer networking concepts. Students will be introduced to the technical foundations of networks, topologies, adapters, bindings, protocols and network administration. Students will also be introduced to diagnostic software, troubleshooting, and repair of networks and network hardware, components and peripherals."	1	twoyear
30	Network Administration	"This is an advanced computer networking course using Microsoft Windows NT Workstation and Server. Students will load NT Workstation/Server then create and administrate a NT 4.0 network. Students will also be introduced to diagnostic software, and troubleshooting and repair of networks and network hardware, components and peripherals."	1	twoyear
30	Elec Motor Control/Prog Control	"This course addresses the necessary theory and skills in the field of programmable controllers for maintenance electricians. The student will learn the coding, numbering, wiring methods and programming of programmable logic controllers. The student will learn how to design ladder diagrams from a hard wired diagram or from a sequence of operation."	1	twoyear
30	Advanced Prog Logic Controllers	"This course will provide the students with theories, concept and skills used in the advanced applications for programmable logic controllers."	1	twoyear
30	Computer & Info Systems Associate Degree (Not transferable)	"This degree prepares students for entry-level employment and/or potential further study in the field of Computer Information Systems through the study of computer programming, web development, and databases. Students will acquire problem solving skills to tackle challenges in creating and maintaining computer programs and databases, as well as general computer and office skills."	1	twoyear
30	Environmental Control Technology (HVAC) (Not transferable)	This degree prepares students for entry-level employment and/or potential further study in the field of Environmental Control Technology. Students completing this degree will have a foundation in the field(s) of HVAC/R through the study of modern refrigeration and will acquire HVAC/R skills.	1	twoyear
30	Engineering Associate Degree 		1	twoyear
30	COMP TIA A+ Skills Certificate		1	cert
30	COMP TIA Network + Skills Certificate		1	cert
30	Computer Applications Certificate 		1	cert
30	Computer & Info Systems Certificate		1	cert
30	Environmental Control Technology Certificate 		1	cert
30	Programmable Logic Controllers Certificate		1	cert
31	Electrical Generation and Transmission 		1	twoyear
31	Instrumentation and Control 		1	twoyear
31	Introduction to Surveying 	"This course covers the use of basic engineering equipment such as hand compass, staff compass, Abney level, topographic and engineer’s chain, electronic distance machine (EDM), total station, automatic level, Philadelphia rod Global Positioning System (GPS); collecting, recording, and plotting field data using field work books, and/or computer software."	1	twoyear
31	Forest Products 	"This course presents a technical study of wood products and manufacturing processes; operations from contract through harvest, transport, and production. Also discussed are safety codes and laws, other forest products and their uses, and new research and development such as green building materials and certified sustainable forests. The course includes wood damage and defect identification."	1	twoyear
31	Computer Network 	"This course covers the theory and applications of computer networks. Topics include Local Area Networks (LAN) basics, network technologies and architectures, Ethernet, Token Ring, and AppleTalk, protocols of TCP/IP and the Internet, introduction to client-server computing, and Novell NetWare orientation (administration, troubleshooting and optimization, and OSI model). Many topics coincide with requirements for the Network+ Certification examination."	1	twoyear
31	PC Hardware Certification	"This course is designed for students who wish to prepare for taking PC hardware certification exams, such as the A+ Certification Exam for computer service technicians. The primary purpose is to learn how to troubleshoot and repair microcomputer systems and their peripherals."	1	twoyear
31	PC Software Certification	"This course is designed for students who wish to prepare for taking the CompTIA A+ Core Software Exam for computer service technicians as well as students who wish to learn how to install, maintain, manage, troubleshoot, and/or upgrade their own computer system software."	1	twoyear
31	Wireless Communications	"This course will act as a comprehensive introduction to all aspects of wireless technology and networking all major wireless communication technologies in a thorough but non-mathematical manner. The instruction will emphasize the practical application of wireless technology by covering the history of wireless communications, WI-FI, Bluetooth, cellular telephony and system design, wireless LANS, networking, RFID, satellite communications, the Global Positioning System (GPS), and recent advances in technology."	1	twoyear
31	Web Design	"Introduction to the principles of design as they relate to the Web. Art and design principles, Web file formats, and successful web graphics will be discussed. PhotoShop, Macromedia Dreamweaver, and Flash will be used in designing and producing Web pages."	1	twoyear
31	Web Programming	This course covers the fundamentals of computer programming for the World Wide Web. Interactive Web pages utilizing clientside and server-side methodologies will be presented. Client-side programming will be covered utilizing HTML and JavaScript. Serverside programming will concentrate on using the language of PHP a hypertext preprocessor.	1	twoyear
31	Web Publishing I	"This course covers the basic information required for publishing web pages on the World Wide Web (WWW). Topics include the HTML language, forms, and CGI scripts, Java applets, and how to post web pages onto a web server."	1	twoyear
31	Web Publishing II	"This course covers the basic information required for publishing web pages on the World Wide Web (WWW). Topics include the HTML language, forms, and CGI scripts, Java applets, and how to post web pages onto a web server. "	1	twoyear
31	Visual Basic Programming	"This course covers the fundamentals of programming a computer running the Microsoft Windows Operating System. Topics to be covered include data types, forms, modules, loops, working with strings, making decisions, an introduction to object oriented programming, and creating functions. This course uses the Microsoft Visual Basic computer language."	1	twoyear
31	Programming I 	"This course develops computer programming skills in an object-oriented language. Topics covered include: program design, modular programming, object oriented programming, data structures, control structures, and the use and modification of classes and their objects."	1	twoyear
31	Intro to Circuit Analysis 	"This course teaches basic electric circuit analysis techniques. Topics include a review of electricity fundamentals, DC circuit analysis, transient and steady state anaylysis of RLC circuits, phasers and AC circuit analysis, network functions, fourier analysis, and a lab."	1	twoyear
31	Mechanics for Engineers – Statics 	This course includes the determination of external and internal forces and moments on engineering structures and machines etc. Vector and scalar methods are used to solve force and moment problems.	1	twoyear
31	Environmental Resources Certificate and Associate Degree Program 	"The Environmental Resources program provides students with education, hands-on training, and exploration of the relationships between people and natural systems for sustainable jobs, careers, and communities. The program is a unique collaboration of three distinct yet closely interrelated programs. Associate of Science Degrees and certificates are available in Natural Resources, Power Generation Technology, and Sustainable Communities."	1	twoyear
31	Environmental Resources Certificate and Associate Degree Program 	"The Environmental Resources program provides students with education, hands-on training, and exploration of the relationships between people and natural systems for sustainable jobs, careers, and communities. The program is a unique collaboration of three distinct yet closely interrelated programs. Associate of Science Degrees and certificates are available in Natural Resources, Power Generation Technology, and Sustainable Communities."	1	cert
31	Power Generation Technology Certificate and Associate Degree 	"This program will prepare students for entry level positions in the steam and electrical power generation and distribution industry.  Students will be trained to control, monitor and maintain boilers, turbines, generators, and auxiliary equipment in power-generating plants.  "	1	twoyear
31	Power Generation Technology Certificate and Associate Degree 	"This program will prepare students for entry level positions in the steam and electrical power generation and distribution industry.  Students will be trained to control, monitor and maintain boilers, turbines, generators, and auxiliary equipment in power-generating plants.  "	1	cert
31	Environmental Resources - Sustainable Communities Certificate and Associate Degree 	"The Sustainable Communities program offers a practical, integrated and interdisciplinary examination of the interactions between humans and natural ecosystems with an emphasis on solutions and entrepreneurship. Students will explore a variety of green industries, new trends, entrepreneurial niches and green income opportunities. Through various hands on skills labs, community based internships and service projects students will gain marketable skills and customize their entry points into a green career pathway."	1	twoyear
31	Environmental Resources - Sustainable Communities Certificate and Associate Degree 	"The Sustainable Communities program offers a practical, integrated and interdisciplinary examination of the interactions between humans and natural ecosystems with an emphasis on solutions and entrepreneurship. Students will explore a variety of green industries, new trends, entrepreneurial niches and green income opportunities. Through various hands on skills labs, community based internships and service projects students will gain marketable skills and customize their entry points into a green career pathway."	1	cert
31	Computer Science PC Network/Hardware/Software Certificate Program 	College of the Siskiyous is proud of the fact that we are able to offer up-to-date hardware and software which is on a continuous replacement plan.	1	cert
31	Web Design Certificate 	This 16-unit certi?cate program is intended for individuals interested in building a solid foundation in the design and development of Internet communications. The coursework is appropriate for those exploring a new career as well as for those who want to add Web design to their current skill set.	1	cert
31	Computer Science Associate Degree 	This field of study is designed for students who seeks an associate degree to transfer and major in computer science or who seek employment at the technician level in the science or mathematics fields.	1	twoyear
31	Engineering		1	twoyear
32	Computer Science 	"This program is a comprehensive exposure to programming languages, algorithms and problem solving in preparation for upper division computer science courses. The Computer Science degree includes substantial course work in mathematics as is required by most university computer science programs."	1	twoyear
33	Introduction to Alternate Energy Systems	"This course will cover present day energy systems, and then cover an in-depth analysis of the design and installation of alternate energy systems. Alternate energy systems to be covered in detail are solar water heating systems, solar electrical systems, wind electrical systems, wind mechanical systems, small hydro-electrical systems, and unique conservation methods. Also presented are topics on geothermal energy, fuel cells, and biomass systems. Additional topics include applications of alternate energy in transportation, industrial, commercial, and residential systems"	1	twoyear
33	Photovoltaic Systems Design and  Installation 	"This course will show students how to do solar site evaluations, electrical load calculations, solar system size calculations, and installation techniques. This course will help students design and install their own solar system and obtain skills for employment. "	1	twoyear
33	Alternate Energy Systems 	"Covers present day energy systems, and then cover an in-depth analysis of the design and installation of alternate energy systems. Alternate energy systems to be covered in detail are solar water heating systems, solar electrical systems, wind electrical systems, wind mechanical systems, small hydro-electrical systems, and unique conservation methods. Also presented are topics on geothermal energy, fuel cells, and biomass systems. Additional topics include applications of alternate energy in transportation, industrial, commercial, and residential systems. "	1	cert
33	Computer Science 	"The Computer Science (COMP/COMSC) program prepares students to major in Computer Science, Computer Engineering, Information Systems, Information Technology, or Software Engineering at four-year colleges and universities. COMP/COMSC assists professionals to refine or update their computer science related skills. "	1	cert
34	Computer Science 	"This program provides a foundation in algorithm development, programming techniques, data structures, and structured problem solving. This A.S. Degree would be appropriate for a student planning to transfer to the California State University (CSU) or the University of California (UC) to major in either Computer Science or Computer Engineering. It is critical that transfer students regularly meet with a CRC counselor and the CRC programming faculty to select specific CRC courses that match university degree requirements."	1	twoyear
34	Information System Security 	"This degree is designed to give students currently employed as an Information Technology (IT) Professional the additional skill sets necessary to work in this rapidly growing field. This degree covers some of the critical skill sets for the International Information Systems Security Certification Consortium (ISC)2 Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) exam, which is recognized as an international standard for an Information Systems Security (ISS) Professional. This certificate is designed to give students currently employed as an Information Technology (IT) professional or those currently working on their Networking degree the additional skill sets necessary to work in this rapidly growing field. This certificate covers some of the critical skill sets for the International Information Systems Security Certification Consortium (ISC)2’s Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) certification, which is recognized as an international standard for the Information Systems Security (ISS) professional."	1	twoyear
34	Information System Security 	"This degree is designed to give students currently employed as an Information Technology (IT) Professional the additional skill sets necessary to work in this rapidly growing field. This degree covers some of the critical skill sets for the International Information Systems Security Certification Consortium (ISC)2 Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) exam, which is recognized as an international standard for an Information Systems Security (ISS) Professional. This certificate is designed to give students currently employed as an Information Technology (IT) professional or those currently working on their Networking degree the additional skill sets necessary to work in this rapidly growing field. This certificate covers some of the critical skill sets for the International Information Systems Security Certification Consortium (ISC)2’s Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) certification, which is recognized as an international standard for the Information Systems Security (ISS) professional."	1	cert
34	Relational Database administration 	"The Relational Database Administration Certificate is designed for a person who is responsible for interacting with SQL Programmers, Database Designers, Systems Administrators, and Network Engineers as well as the day-to-day operation of a Relational Database Management System. This course of study is appropriate for an entry level Database Administration position. Courses used towards the completion of the Computer Programmer - SQL certificate may also be used to satisfy the requirements of this certificate.  "	1	twoyear
34	Relational Database administration 	"The Relational Database Administration Certificate is designed for a person who is responsible for interacting with SQL Programmers, Database Designers, Systems Administrators, and Network Engineers as well as the day-to-day operation of a Relational Database Management System. This course of study is appropriate for an entry level Database Administration position. Courses used towards the completion of the Computer Programmer - SQL certificate may also be used to satisfy the requirements of this certificate.  "	1	cert
34	Engineering	"CRC's program provides the foundation in mathematics, physics, and engineering necessary to transfer to a university and complete a bachelor's degree in engineering. Engineering involves the application of scientific and mathematical principles needed to solve practical technical problems. Although the first two years of engineering courses for all engineering degrees are similar, students should consult the lower division requirements of the institution to which they wish to transfer."	1	twoyear
34	GreenForce Initiative: Environmental Studies and Sustainability 		1	twoyear
34	"GreenForce Initiative: Green Buildings: Environmental Design, Energy Management, and Performance Based Construction "		1	cert
35	SolidWorks	(Beginning) 	1	twoyear
35	SolidWorks	(Intermediate) 	1	twoyear
35	SolidWorks	(Advanced) 	1	twoyear
35	SolidWorks	(SURFACES) 	1	twoyear
35	SolidWorks	(PDMWorks) 	1	twoyear
35	SolidWorks	(Simulation) 	1	twoyear
35	Pro/ENGINEER Wildfire 	(Beginning)	1	twoyear
35	Creo Parametric 	(Beginning)	1	twoyear
35	Pro/ENGINEER Wildfire 	(Intermediate) 	1	twoyear
35	Creo Parametric	(Intermediate) 	1	twoyear
35	Pro/ENGINEER Wildfire 	(Advanced) 	1	twoyear
35	Creo Parametric 	(Advanced) 	1	twoyear
35	Pro/ENGINEER Wildfire 	(Pro/SHEETMETAL) 	1	twoyear
35	Creo Parametric 	(Sheetmetal) 	1	twoyear
35	Pro/ENGINEER Wildfire 	(Pro/SURFACE) 	1	twoyear
35	Creo Parametric 	(Surfaces) 	1	twoyear
35	Pro/ENGINEER Wildfire 	(Pro/MOLD) 	1	twoyear
35	Pro/ENGINEER Wildfire 	(Pro/CABLE) 	1	twoyear
35	Pro/ENGINEER Wildfire 	(Pro/MECHANICA) 	1	twoyear
35	Creo Parametric 	(Mechanica) 	1	twoyear
35	Pro/ENGINEER	(Windchill ProductPoint) 	1	twoyear
35	Pro/ENGINEER Wildfire 	(Update) 	1	twoyear
35	AutoCAD	(Beginning) 	1	twoyear
35	AutoCAD	(Intermediate) 	1	twoyear
35	AutoCAD Civil 3D 		1	twoyear
35	AutoDesk Revit Architecture 		1	twoyear
35	AutoDesk Inventor 		1	twoyear
35	Intro. to Data Communication & Networking	"Concepts of communication, data communications and networks. Overview of connectivity options, common protocols, local and wide area networks."	1	twoyear
35	Introduction to Network Security 	"Network security using the standard protocols and algorithms. All three goals of security including confidentiality, integrity, and availability will be discussed.  Attacks on security including active and passive are discussed and elaborated on. Two major techniques of security, cryptography and steganography, are described  with emphasis on cryptography. The emphasis is on mechanisms and services provided by the network security."	1	twoyear
35	Intro to Green Building	"An overview of strategies to implement a green building project within your organization. The strategies include model green building policy and guidelines including LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design), assembling a green team, assessing the impact of construction and buildings on society, and an overview of key stakeholders in the construction field."	1	twoyear
35	Intro to Energy Management Technology	"An overview of the field of Energy Management and its importance in today’s society, including future implications, and discussion of careers and impact on modern culture and society. This module introduces the whole building concept and related energy and conservation issues including the building envelope, HVAC systems, lighting, energy management and controls and renewable energy technologies."	1	twoyear
35	HVAC Systems	"An introduction to HVAC systems, the systems that provide heating, cooling, humidity control, filtration, and comfort control to facilities.  Examines various HVAC systems and their interrelationship with other building systems.  Students will consider HVAC technologies that can help facilities managers achieve the goals of lowering energy costs, becoming more environmentally friendly, and enhancing indoor air quality."	1	twoyear
35	Lighting Distribution Systems	"Provides an introduction to the fundamentals of lighting and energy management lighting techniques.  Discusses the different types of lifhting and day-lighting applications used in commercial and institutional buildings, while describing the quality and quantity of lighting needed for certain applications, measuring efficiency, color rendering, ballasts, etc. Lighting design that provides visual comfort at lower energy costs will be emphasized."	1	twoyear
35	Electric Power Systems 	"An introduction to electric power systems, focusing on distribution components such as transformers, switch-gear, distribution panels, and wiring. Power systems analysis, preventive maintenance, and record keeping techniques will be discussed. Emphasis will be placed on opportunities within a facility’s distribution system to save energy, increase equipment life, and reduce unscheduled outages."	1	twoyear
35	Solar Thermal Systems	"An overview of solar thermal systems including water heating technologies which reduce energy use to generate hot water including maintaining equipment and insulation, reducing hot water use and water temperatures, reducing heat losses from the system, and utilizing waste heat sources and renewable energy technologies, including solar."	1	twoyear
35	Energy Management Systems and Controls	"Describes the most commonly used controls and energy management systems in commercial and institutional applications. Topics will include complex automatic systems for major energy-consuming equipment, as well as simple controls, including time clocks, occupancy sensors, photocells, and programmable thermostats. Computer-based energy management systems, as well as control systems to reduce peak electrical demand will be discussed."	1	twoyear
35	Renewable and Alternative Energy Systems	"An introduction to the potential for renewable and alternative energy systems when adding power generation capacity for a site or large facility. Life-cycle cost comparisons between renewable energy systems and conventional power generation and the added potential of reducing peak power demand will be emphasized. Topics include photovoltaic power systems, wind energy systems, and fuel cells."	1	twoyear
35	Intro to PV Technology	"An introduction to the fundamentals of photovoltaic (PV) basics including how solar cells convert sunlight to electricity, solar potential, types of solar systems, system size requirement and design, net metering options, rebate programs, and related topics for your home or business.  An emphasis on the benefits of renewable energy technology as well as how to understand and review multiple bids and analyzing the economics of a PV installation. Good introductory course for students considering the North American Board of Certified Energy Practitioners certification program."	1	twoyear
35	PV Technology Field Project	"A PV technology field studies course emphasizing hands-on learning of solar angle/orientation and energy use calculation, PV systems design and installation for residential and commercial projects.  Good field studies course for students considering the North American Board of Certified Energy Practitioners certification program. "	1	twoyear
35	"Humans, the Environment and Sustainability"	"A study of human evolution, biology and ecology, including human civilizations, past and present, and the interaction with the environment. Environmental worldviews (ethics), past and present, of the various cultural, ethnic, gender and socioeconomic groups will be explored."	1	twoyear
35	SolidWorks Skills Certificate 	"De Anza College’s Computer Aided Design Department developed the SolidWorks Certificate option to teach drafter, designer, and engineering professionals entry- and mid-levels skills using SolidWorks software.  "	1	cert
35	Computer-Aided Design Mechanical Certificate Program 	"Students pursuing De Anza College’s Computer Aided Design A.S. Degree will learn the fundamentals of CAD using three different design graphic software packages. The program teaches students substantive job skills in AutoDesk products (Inventor, ACAD, and Revit), Creo, and SolidWorks CAD systems. "	1	cert
35	Computer-Aided Design Mechanical Associate Degree Program 	"Students pursuing De Anza College’s Computer Aided Design A.S. Degree will learn the fundamentals of CAD using three different design graphic software packages. The program teaches students substantive job skills in AutoDesk products (Inventor, ACAD, and Revit), Creo, and SolidWorks CAD systems. "	1	twoyear
35	Enterprise Security Professional Certificate 	"This certificate program prepares students to become Enterprise Security Technicians in a networking environment. In this program students learn network security basics, emergency response planning, internet protocols, and more advanced-level security policies and procedures, Network Monitoring, and Risk Analysis and Assessment based on Network Security. "	1	cert
35	Enterprise Security Professional Certificate 	"The Associate Degree program offers students the opportunity to study information security principles and theories that focus on asset protection. In this program students learn network security basics, security policies and procedures, Network Monitoring, and Risk Analysis and Assessment based on Network Security. Students in this program can pursue either a general course of study or a concentration in information security. "	1	cert
35	Energy Management and Climate Policy Certificate 		1	cert
35	Energy Management and Climate Policy Associate Degree	"The Environmental Studies Department at De Anza College offers certificates and a degree in Energy Management Technology (EMT). Core energy management classes are offered in the SEMP Lab at the Kirsch Center for Environmental Studies. Also courses may be taken via mediated learning (videostream, DVD or videotape) through our Stewardship Resource Center."	1	twoyear
36	Computer Information Systems 	"The computer information systems associate in science pro­gram prepares the student for jobs in business and govern­ment as information technologies and management work­ers. Principal areas of study are computer software appli­cations, internet technologies, database systems, project management systems and basic network principles."	1	twoyear
36	Computer Information Systems 	"The computer information systems associate in science pro­gram prepares the student for jobs in business and govern­ment as information technologies and management work­ers. Principal areas of study are computer software appli­cations, internet technologies, database systems, project management systems and basic network principles."	1	cert
36	Computer Science	The associate in science in computer science is designed as a two-year curricular pathway that offers students a broad general education while integrating an in-depth study of computer science. Students will be prepared to assume entry-level positions in business and industry. Many of the courses are also applicable toward advanced levels of study. Students who intend to transfer to a four-year program in computer science should consult with a counselor regard­ing other mathematics and science requirements.	1	twoyear
36	Computer Science 	The associate in science in computer science is designed as a two-year curricular pathway that offers students a broad general education while integrating an in-depth study of computer science. Students will be prepared to assume entry-level positions in business and industry. Many of the courses are also applicable toward advanced levels of study. Students who intend to transfer to a four-year program in computer science should consult with a counselor regard­ing other mathematics and science requirements.	1	cert
36	Energy Systems/Photovoltaic 	"This program prepares students for jobs installing, design­ing, servicing and maintenance of photovoltaic systems. Students from this program will be able to work with residential, commercial and industrial size photovoltaic systems. Many of the skills learned in these courses relate to solar thermal systems as well."	1	twoyear
36	Energy Systems/Photovoltaic 	"This program prepares students for jobs installing, design­ing, servicing and maintenance of photovoltaic systems. Students from this program will be able to work with residential, commercial and industrial size photovoltaic systems. Many of the skills learned in these courses relate to solar thermal systems as well."	1	cert
36	Energy Systems/Solar Thermal 	"This program prepares students for careers installing, designing, servicing, and maintaining solar thermal sys­tems. Successful completers of this program will be able to work with residential, commercial, and industrial-size solar thermal systems. Solar thermal systems include domestic water heating, radiant floor heating, swimming pool, and spa heating systems. Solar air heating and cooling systems are currently under development, and will be included once established."	1	twoyear
36	Energy Systems/Solar Thermal 	"This program prepares students for careers installing, designing, servicing, and maintaining solar thermal sys­tems. Successful completers of this program will be able to work with residential, commercial, and industrial-size solar thermal systems. Solar thermal systems include domestic water heating, radiant floor heating, swimming pool, and spa heating systems. Solar air heating and cooling systems are currently under development, and will be included once established."	1	cert
36	Engineering/Mechanical Design Drafting 	"The associate in science degree in mechanical design draft­ing technology provides students with the technical and analytical skills needed for employment in the field of mechanical engineering drafting. Through both academic and laboratory study students gain the practical skills need­ed for entry into the job market. Drafters prepare, interpret, and revise technical drawings using computer-aided-draft­ing (CAD) and may gather and categorize field data."	1	twoyear
37	Comp Science I: Intro to Program Structures	"An introduction to computer programming concepts from a computer science perspective. Programming structures of sequential, selection and repetition are covered using a high-level object oriented language. Using existing classes and creating classes, methods, argument passing, program and data abstraction (including arrays) are covered. Documentation, programming style, and program design and development are addressed throughout the course."	1	twoyear
37	Comp Science II: Intro to Data Structures	"This course covers abstract data types and structures in an Object Oriented environment and the use of advanced programming techniques. Students will learn to reason mathematically about programs, including Big-O methods. The principles of encapsulation, abstraction, and polymorphism will be applied to large programming projects. The course will cover data structures and algorithms for such task as searching, sorting, and collections, using sets and list implement with arrays and link-list and to implement stacks, queues, trees, graphs, iterators and hashing."	1	twoyear
37	Telecommunications and Computer Networks	"This course is intended for students who want a general introduction to telecommunications systems, network design and implementations, network applications, communications hardware, network management, and security, controls, and protocols."	1	twoyear
37	Intro to Database Systems	"This course covers the basics of data modeling and database design. Students will learn a systematic approach to database design using entity-relationship models, normalization, and relational database design. The course also includes extensive up-to-date treatments of the standard database languages, SQL (Structured Query Language).  The increasingly important areas of object-based and object-relational database management systems will also be addressed."	1	twoyear
37	Engineering Processes & Tools	"This course introduces students to the engineering profession and the devices, processes, and techniques utilized in solving engineering problems.  Computers and associated components, hardware and software, are introduced.  The use of spreadsheets and mathematical software  in engineering problem solving and data presentation is discussed.  Engineering report writing and technical presentations are practiced in the class.  Students also learn the engineering process through a term project."	1	twoyear
37	Engineering Design & Graphics	"This course covers the principles of design and its graphical presentation in engineering as well as computer-aided design (CAD) and programming.  Major topics include the engineering design process,  orthographical projection, multiview drawing, pictorial drawings, dimensioning and tolerancing, and VBA programming.  Engineering graphical presentation is based on ANSI standard.  Students will learn to use CAD software in producing engineering drawings"	1	twoyear
37	Computer Science Transfer Degree 		1	twoyear
37	Computer and Info Technology Associate Degree	The Computer and Information Technology Program offers an Associate in Science Degree.  This curriculum is supported by a solid foundation of core courses that focus on problem solving and communication skills for Information Technology professionals involved in computer network environments.  	1	twoyear
37	Engineering Associate Degree	Evergreen Valley College offers a two-year lower division Engineering Program which allows students to transfer to any four-year California College or University offering degree in Engineering. The lower division Engineering Core Courses recommended by the Engineering Liaison Committee of the State of California have been coordinated between community colleges and the four-year colleges and universities throughout California.	1	twoyear
39	Computer Science 	"The Computer Science degree provides a comprehensive exposure to computer science in preparation for upper-division computer science courses. The program also prepares students for entry level employment in the computer and related industries. The Computer Science Associate in Science (A.S.) Degree may be obtained by completion of the required program, plus general education requirements"	1	twoyear
39	Engineering	"FLC's program provides the foundation in mathematics, physics, and engineering necessary to transfer to a university and complete a bachelor's degree in engineering. Engineering involves the application of scientific and mathematical principles needed to solve practical technical problems. Although the first two years of engineering courses for all engineering degrees are similar, students should consult the lower division requirements of the institution to which they wish to transfer."	1	twoyear
40	Intro to Clean Energy Technology	"Introduces the technical student to the field of clean energy technology, including modern energy systems and utility infrastructure, fossil fuel and renewable energy power generation, solar photovoltaic (PV) and wind technology, buildings as systems, green and LEED building, smart energy and active distribution (microgrid concept), transportation energy and advanced transportation solutions, and the future of sustainable energy systems. Overview of the energy industry, environmental and economic considerations, and key research and policy areas for clean and sustainable energy solutions. Provides students with a conceptual framework and foundation to proceed to more advanced study, as well as exploring emerging clean energy careers."	1	twoyear
40	Intro to Data Management Systems	"Introduction to database systems and data management.  Topics include database definitions and concepts, data models, relational database, client/server database, distributed database, object-oriented database, business intelligence and data warehouses, transaction management and concurrency control, database administration and security, database connectivity and web technologies, database performance, databases in e-commerce, and hands-on experience with database management. "	1	twoyear
40	Software Engineering	"A language-independent study of current software development methodologies.  The stages of systems analysis product design, implementation and testing are practiced. Collaborative, interactive design and technical writing are problem solving techniques learned."	1	twoyear
40	Network Fundamentals & the TCP/IP Protocol Suite	"This course is designed to provide students with classroom and laboratory experience in current and emerging networking technologies. Instruction includes networking, network terminology, cabling, cabling tools, network protocols, network standards the OSI model, LANs, WANs, routers, network topology, IP addressing TCP, and network standards."	1	twoyear
40	Intro to Computer Networking	This is a survey course designed to provide interested students with an overview of current networking technologies.	1	twoyear
40	Microsoft SQL Server Implementation & Maintenance	This course provides students with the knowledge and skills in implementing and maintaining a database using Microsoft SQL Server 2008. 	1	twoyear
40	Programmable Logic Controllers; Low-Voltage Systems & High-Voltage Systems	"Introduction to programmable controllers, alarm systems, telephone wiring, instrumentation, and high voltage testing."	1	twoyear
40	Electrical Systems	This class will cover the 2005 National Electrical Code & Electrical Systems based on the 2005 NEC.	1	twoyear
40	Publishing on the Web Using HTML/XHTML	"Introduction to electronic publishing on the Web using HTML and XTHML  using current standards.  Students will produce a validated multi-page Web site with image, text, and links; tables, frames, forms and simple multimedia. Students will upload and modify documents to a web server, understand client interactions, and planning, designing, testing and maintaining of a Web site. "	1	twoyear
40	Advanced Topics in Web Publishing	Exploration of advanced technologies in Web publishing which work with Hypertext Mark-up Language and electronic publishing on the Web. 	1	twoyear
40	"Energy, Society and the Environment"	"Guides the general education student through humanity’s efforts to harness and generate energy, for industry, work, habitat and recreation. "	1	twoyear
40	Power Systems	"Introduced students to the field of modern power systems, from electrical power generation to transmission and distribution to electrical power networks in buildings."	1	twoyear
40	Solar PV Systems	"Introduces students to the field of photovoltaic technology, including design, fabrication technology, commercial applications and grid incorporation."	1	twoyear
40	Smart Energy Systems (Smart Grid)	"Introduces students to the emerging field of smart energy systems, active power management and smart grid."	1	twoyear
40	Engineering Transfer Degree 	"Engineers apply the theories and principles of science and mathematics to practical technical problems. The Engineering Major provides a solid foundation in what is normally referred to as the ""Engineering Core"" at most colleges and universities. Mathematics, physics, chemistry and introductory engineering courses such as circuit analysis and statics make up the bulk of this core. The major is designed so that, in most cases, it provides all of the basic subjects necessary for a smooth transfer to the candidate's chosen college or university."	1	twoyear
40	Computer Science Associate Degree	"Based on a given set of guidelines for a product or application, produce program specifications a successful student in this program will be able to create and debug code for those specifications  and write comprehensible documentation. "	1	twoyear
40	Computer Software Development Associate Degree	"Based on a given set of guidelines for a product or application, produce program specifications, a successful student in this program will be able to create and debug code for those specifications and write comprehensible documentation. "	1	twoyear
40	Database Management Associate Degree	"Based on a given set of guidelines for a product or application, produce program specifications, a successful student in this program will be able to create and debug code for those specifications and write comprehensible documentation. "	1	twoyear
40	Microsoft Certified IT Professional Database Administration Skills Certificate		1	cert
40	General Electrician Associate Degree	"Students gain hands-on experience as they work on electrical systems and component wiring to include: power distribution systems, electrical panels, wiring, conduit, piping, test equipment, transformers, motors, grounding, over-current protection, security, solar, and home automation systems. "	1	twoyear
40	Internet Technology Associate Degree	"A successful student in this program will be able to use current developmental standards, technologies and software to create and deploy media to Web applications and devices for business and other applications. "	1	twoyear
40	Internet Technology: Electronic Business Certificate of Achievement		1	cert
40	Internet Technology: Web Programming Certificate of Achievement		1	cert
41	Industrial Electronics 	"Application of electronic principles in the industrial environment. Emphasis on power circuits, control circuits and electronic components. "	1	twoyear
41	Instrumentation Systems 	"Basic instrumentation and control concepts with application in process control systems. Calibrating, terminology, and Piping and Instrument Diagram (P&ID) symbols as established by the Instrumentation, Systems, and Automation Society. "	1	twoyear
41	Programmable Logic Controllers 	"Programmable controllers, basic programming of programmable logic controllers, and input/output device interfacing. "	1	twoyear
41	Wireless Networking 	"Basic understanding of wireless networking. Plan, design, and configure wireless networks and equipment. Basic security for wireless networks. Prepare for the Certified Wireless Network Administrator (CWNA) exam. "	1	twoyear
41	Network Security Fundamentals 	"Provides a comprehensive overview of network security. Covers a full range of security concepts and techniques used in the business environment. Prepares students to become CompTIA Security+ certified. Covers authentication methods and common network attacks with strategies to protect a business against these attacks. Explores various network devices and media, and the proper use of perimeter topologies, extranets, and intranets to establish network security. Introduces basic cryptography and basic operational and organizational security measures. "	1	twoyear
41	Network Defense and Countermeasures 	"Examines the practice and techniques of intrusion detection to deter network attacks against business information technologies. Provides a comprehensive overview of intrusion detection design, and implementation, virtual private networks, packet filters, and network traffic signatures. Prepares students to take the network defense and countermeasures exam for the security certified professional (SCP) which is an industry standard security certification. "	1	twoyear
41	Network Defense and Countermeasures 	"Comprehensive overview of firewalls and their use with other network security components Perimeter devices and concepts are covered to provide a secure business environment. Prepares students for industry standard security certifications. Covers authentication methods, packet filtering, proxy servers, and encryption strategies to protect business information systems. "	1	twoyear
41	Data Communications 	"Essential elements that make up data communications including transmission media, local area networks, wide area networks, network interconnections, network management, security, network applications, and related technologies. "	1	twoyear
41	Computer Operating Systems 	"Principles of computer operating systems. A survey and comparison of the graphical user interface along with the command line interface using various operating systems such as Microsoft Windows and Linux, etc. "	1	twoyear
41	Fundamentals of Networking 	"Implementing and supporting a Microsoft Windows network infrastructure. For product support professionals who will be responsible for installing, configuring and supporting a Microsoft Windows network infrastructure. Prepare students for the MCSE exam. Fundamentals of UNIX using Solaris."	1	twoyear
41	Networking Essentials 	"Local Area Networks fundamentals. Providing a theoretically rich, hands-on introduction to networking and the Internet. First class in a series of four in preparation for the CISCO CCNA Certification. "	1	twoyear
41	PROGRAMMING IN THE PASCAL LANGUAGE 	"Introduction to programming in PASCAL; syntax; control and data structures; design development, style, documentation, testing, and maintenance of software; arrays, functions, procedures, records, and files. Students who have limited programming experience are advised to take this course prior to Computer Science 40. "	1	twoyear
41	Engineering Materials 	"Properties of engineering materials and their relation to atomic structure. The effect of microstructure on the mechanical, electrical, magnetic and thermal properties. Phase equilibria and strengthening processes for metals, ceramics, and polymers."	1	twoyear
41	Routing Protocols and Concepts	"Local Area Network routers, including basic router configuration and routing protocols. Second class in a series of four for preparation for the Cisco CCNA Certification."	1	twoyear
41	Advanced Routing and Switching	"How to configure a switch for basic functionality and how to implement Virtual LANs, VTP, and Inter-VLAN routing in a converged network. The different implementations of Spanning Tree Protocol in a converged network are presented, and students develop the knowledge and skills necessary to implement a WLAN in a small-to-medium network. The third class in a series of four in preparation for the CISCO CCNA Certification."	1	twoyear
41	Advanced Networking and Management	"WAN technologies and network services; implementation and configure of data link protocols and WAN security concepts, principles of traffic, access control, and addressing services. Fourth class in a series of four in preparation for the CISCO CCNA Certification."	1	twoyear
41	Building Multilayer Switched Networks	"Multilayer Switching teaches students about the deployment of state-of-the-art campus LANs. Students will develop skills in the following areas: Campus Networks, Virtual Local Area Networks (VLANs), Spanning Tree Protocol, Inter-VLAN Routing, and Configuring Switches to Support Voice. Second class in a series of four in preparation for the CISCO CCNP Certification."	1	twoyear
41	Optimizing Converged Networks	"Introduces students to optimizing and providing effective QOS techniques in converged networks operating voice, wireless and security applications. Fourth class in a series of four in the preparation for the CISCO CCNP Certification."	1	twoyear
41	Fund of Network Security-Firewalls	"Security policy design and management; security technologies, products, and solutions; firewall and secure router design, installation, configuration, and maintenance."	1	twoyear
41	Electrical Systems Technology Certificate and Associate 	Electrical Systems Technology provides an opportunity for students to prepare for employment in the electronics/electrical industry. Specific occupational preparation is provided in the following program.	1	cert
41	Information Security Certificate 	"Designed to meet the training needs for qualified entry-level computer network security professionals. It is also designed to help prepare students for industry standard security certifications like CompTIA Security+, Security Certified Professional (SCP) and others."	1	cert
41	Microcomputer Software Specialist Certificate and Associate 	"Designed for the nontransfer student leading to employment as a microcomputer software specialist or similar computer specialist. Completing the program with the college graduation requirements leads to an AS degree; with the graduation requirements, student is eligible for a certificate of achievement."	1	cert
41	Microcomputer Software Specialist Certificate and Associate 	"Designed for the nontransfer student leading to employment as a microcomputer software specialist or similar computer specialist. Completing the program with the college graduation requirements leads to an AS degree; with the graduation requirements, student is eligible for a certificate of achievement."	1	twoyear
41	Networking/Computer Technician Associate Degree and Certificate 	This option is designed to meet the training needs for qualified entry-level microcomputer and networking technicians.	1	cert
41	Networking/Computer Technician Associate Degree and Certificate 	This option is designed to meet the training needs for qualified entry-level microcomputer and networking technicians.	1	twoyear
41	Wireless Networks Certificate	Training is designed to prepare the student for employment as a networking technician emphasizing Wireless Local Area Networks.	1	cert
41	Computer Science Transfer Degree 		1	twoyear
41	Engineering Transfer Degree 	"The following curriculum satisfies the lower division requirements of most colleges and universities that offer degrees in engineering. Depending upon the engineering field selected, students may be required to complete additional prerequisite classes. The student is strongly advised to consult with an advisor and compare his/her planned program with that listed in the catalog of the senior institution to which he/she expects to transfer."	1	twoyear
41	CISCO CCNA Preparation Certificate	"This option is to prepare students for the CISCO Certified Network Associate (CCNA) certification test. By completing this option, a student will have basic knowledge of networking hardware, including routers."	1	cert
41	Control Systems Certificate	Training in this specialized field is designed to prepare the student for employment as a control and instrument technician.	1	cert
41	Network Security Certificate	Training is designed to prepare the student for employment as a networking technician emphasizing network security.	1	cert
42	PC Hardware	"This course introduces students to network security concepts and prepares them for computer systems and network management duties. This course covers security concepts, communications and infrastructure security, basic cryptography, and operational and organizational security. May be repeated twice for credit. This course has the option of a letter grade or pass/no pass."	1	twoyear
42	Operating Systems	"This course will survey current computer operating systems such as Microsoft Windows 98, NT, 2000 and XP. Linux will also be covered. Topics include file system management, systems requirements, network systems integration, security, and regular maintenance procedures. This course has the option of a letter grade or pass/no pass."	1	twoyear
42	Applied Networking	"This course covers fundamental networking concepts and develops the skills and knowledge to set up and maintain small business/home networks. The course is not hardware or vendor specific. It helps students prepare for the “Network +” certification exam, an industry- wide, vendor-neutral certification program developed and sponsored by the Computing Technology Industry Association (CompTIA). This course has the option of a letter grade or pass/no pass. May be repeated three times for credit."	1	twoyear
42	Intro to Info Security	"This course introduces students to network security concepts and prepares them for computer systems and network management duties. This course covers security concepts, communications and infrastructure security, basic cryptography, and operational and organizational security. May be repeated twice for credit. This course has the option of a letter grade or pass/no pass."	1	twoyear
42	Web Page Authoring I	"An introduction to using Hypertext Mark-Up Language (HTML) and Extensible HTML (XHTML) to create web pages which can be uploaded and displayed on the World Wide Web. Students will use HTML/XHTML to create web pages with text in various sizes and colors, links to other sites, background color or patterns, graphics, tables and mailto links. Principles of design and color as they apply to screen presentations will be included. This course has the option of a letter grade or pass/no pass. May be repeated three times for credit."	1	twoyear
42	Web Page Authoring II	"This course is a continuation of CSIS 6, Web Page Authoring I. Topics that will be covered include XHTML, frames, advanced tables, forms, scripting languages, image maps, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), and new trends in web page technology. This course has the option of a letter grade or pass/no pass. May be repeated three times for credit. This course is also listed as DM 7."	1	twoyear
42	C++ Programming II	"This course is a continuation of CSIS 45, intended for students majoring in programming and/or planning to transfer to a 4-year college or university Computer Science program. The course will cover topics discussed in CSIS 45 in more detail. In addition the course will cover more advanced C techniques such as pointers, recursion, and linked lists. Special emphasis will be placed on C++ features such as classes, objects, templates and operator overloading. This course has the option of a letter grade or pass/no pass."	1	twoyear
42	"Electrical Circuits, Devices and Systems"	"Natural, forced, and steady-state response by impedance, exponential, pole-zero and phasor methods; solid state; digital circuits and laplace transform methods are introduced."	1	twoyear
42	CSIS - Business Computer Applications Certificate/Associate Degree 	"The Computer Applications Option prepares students for positions utilizing a wide variety of popular operating systems and business application software. The computer applications taught are used in most business environments including word processing, spreadsheets, databases, graphics, and desktop publishing. This degree is also appropriate for retraining and for improving promotional opportunities. Career opportunities include general office work, document preparation, technical support, help desk training and support, word processing, administrative secretary and administrative services."	1	twoyear
42	CSIS - Business Computer Applications Certificate/Associate Degree 	"The Computer Applications Option prepares students for positions utilizing a wide variety of popular operating systems and business application software. The computer applications taught are used in most business environments including word processing, spreadsheets, databases, graphics, and desktop publishing. This degree is also appropriate for retraining and for improving promotional opportunities. Career opportunities include general office work, document preparation, technical support, help desk training and support, word processing, administrative secretary and administrative services."	1	cert
42	Computer Hardware Certificate		1	cert
42	Computer Networking Certificate or Associate Degree	Computer Networking is designed to provide entry-level skills and knowledge for students to enter the networking profession. Students will be eligible to take the industry A+ hardware exam. The program also provides a solid foundation in network technology for students who plan to pursue further education in the networking field at a four year college.	1	twoyear
42	Computer Networking Certificate or Associate Degree	Computer Networking is designed to provide entry-level skills and knowledge for students to enter the networking profession. Students will be eligible to take the industry A+ hardware exam. The program also provides a solid foundation in network technology for students who plan to pursue further education in the networking field at a four year college.	1	cert
42	Intro to Computer Networking Certificate		1	cert
42	Computer Programming Certificate or Associate Degree 	Computer Programming prepares students for entry-level programming in a wide variety of occupations. Many of the courses will be needed for students transferring to a university to study Computer Science. Students planning to transfer need to research lower division major requirements at the transfer destination of their choice.	1	twoyear
42	Computer Programming Certificate or Associate Degree 	Computer Programming prepares students for entry-level programming in a wide variety of occupations. Many of the courses will be needed for students transferring to a university to study Computer Science. Students planning to transfer need to research lower division major requirements at the transfer destination of their choice.	1	cert
42	Programming for the Internet Certificate or Associate Degree 	"Programming for the Internet prepares students for entry-level positions developing and maintaining Internet and Intranet web pages. The courses prepare students to create, modify, and program web pages, such as those used in electronic commerce. Students will gain knowledge in both technical and artistic sides of this profession."	1	twoyear
42	Programming for the Internet Certificate or Associate Degree 	"Programming for the Internet prepares students for entry-level positions developing and maintaining Internet and Intranet web pages. The courses prepare students to create, modify, and program web pages, such as those used in electronic commerce. Students will gain knowledge in both technical and artistic sides of this profession."	1	cert
42	Scientific Programming Certificate or Associate Degree	Scientific Programming prepares students for entry-level scientific programming in a wide variety of occupations. Many of the courses will be needed for students transferring to a university to study Computer Science. Students planning to transfer need to research lower division major requirements at the transfer destination of their choice.	1	twoyear
42	Scientific Programming Certificate or Associate Degree	Scientific Programming prepares students for entry-level scientific programming in a wide variety of occupations. Many of the courses will be needed for students transferring to a university to study Computer Science. Students planning to transfer need to research lower division major requirements at the transfer destination of their choice.	1	cert
42	Physical Science and Engineering: General Engineering Associate Degree	"This option constitutes the lower-division core classes suggested by the Engineering Liaison Council (ELC), an organization composed of representatives from two and four-year colleges and universities. Students completing this degree will have learned to identify various engineering problems and integrate math and science to solve them, have proficiency in the design, execution, analysis, and interpretation of experiments, demonstrate familiarity with the engineering design process, and will have demonstrated an ability to communicate effectively using written, oral, electronic, and graphical means. This degree will prepare students to transfer to four-year colleges or universities to pursue degrees in any of the engineering disciplines (aeronautical, chemical, civil, computer, electrical, industrial, materials, mechanical, etc.). Students electing this major are encouraged to consult the catalogs of the four-year schools to which they plan to transfer early in their Gavilan course work as requirements for transfer vary by institution."	1	twoyear
43	Database Management	"Introduces the fundamental concepts of database management. Topics include the database environment, development, entity-relationship model, object-oriented modeling, logical database design, physical database design, client/server and middleware, SQL, database access, distributed databases, administration and warehousing. Hands-on experiences with a full range of database topics demonstrate practical use of databases."	1	twoyear
43	Operating Systems	"Essentials of programming a digital computer for science, engineering, and mathematical applications. The student has the opportunity for extensive programming experience in numerical programming, statistical programming, matrices, and numerical approximation. In general, CSS-4 is designed as the fundamental programming course for transfer students in science, mathematics, and engineering. Lab work, in addition to regularly scheduled lab hours, may be necessary."	1	twoyear
43	Comp Systems and Info Literacy	"An overview of the computer information systems, languages, computer applications and the role of computers in the evolution of an information-based society. Topics include computer terminology, application programs, email, networks, word processing, spreadsheets, presentation software, the Internet, using and evaluating information from electronic sources and conducting library research online."	1	twoyear
43	Networking Fundamentals	"Introduces the architecture, structure, functions, components, and models of the Internet and other computer networks. Uses the OSI and TCP layered models to examine roles of protocols and services at the application, network, data link, and physical layers. The principles and structure of IP addressing and the fundamentals of Ethernet concepts, media, and operations are introduced to provide a foundation for the curriculum."	1	twoyear
43	Comp Security Principles	"Covers the essentials of computer and network security. Includes security objectives and the role of policy deployment while practicing to defend against network attacks. Additional topics: cryptography, public key infrastructure, standards and protocols, impact of physical security on network security, infrastructure security, remote access, wireless and instant messaging, intrusion detection and network baselines. Scenario-based curriculum describing a start-up company in which the students are ""employed"" and their roles within that company will also be incorporated in the class. Coverage of both CompTIA's Security+ certification exam and the (ISC) 2 SSCP certification, which focuses on best practices, roles, and responsibilities of security experts, is integral to the course."	1	twoyear
43	Networking Administration and Storage Management	"An overview of networking operating systems concepts and administration, including tasks and operations involved in the daily management and ongoing support of a network. Additionally, characteristics and limitations of current storage architectures is presented, paired with discussion and implementation in a virtualized environment. Hands-on experience is provided for familiarization with networking and virtualization configurations."	1	twoyear
43	Network Security Principles	"Provides an in-depth exploration of the essentials of computer network security. Analyze security objectives and the role of policy deployment while defending against network attacks. Covers attacks and malware, E-mail, web components, software development, disaster recovery, risk, change and privilege management, forensics and legal issues. Scenario-based curriculum describing a start-up company in which the students are employed with specific roles will also be incorporated in the class. Coverage of both CompTIA's Security+ certification exam and the (ISC)2 SSCP certification, is integral to this course."	1	twoyear
43	Green Building Materials and Methods	"In this advanced Green Building course, students will learn more about environmentally preferable materials, methods, and systems for both residential and commercial projects. Products, planning, and performance compose the systems students will study. The class will take a field trip to a green building materials supplier."	1	twoyear
43	Green Building Remodel and Retrofit	"Examines ""green"" options to remodel and retrofit existing buildings vs. new building to meet environmental standards. Study of both commercial and residential green remodeling principles and techniques."	1	twoyear
43	Sustainable Building Design	Use of integrated design systems to maximize efficiency and aesthetic qualities. Students will design several simple systems and one integrated vision of their own. Covers both residential and commercial buildings.	1	twoyear
43	Plumbing and HVAC	"Covers traditional plumbing and HVAC principles and skills such as piping materials and joining methods, and also innovative systems such as solar hot water and geothermal HVAC."	1	twoyear
43	Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency	"An introduction to engineering through green, renewable, sustainable, and environmental technology. The course will focus on renewable and alternative energy  sources, including solar, wind, hydropower, geothermal, and fuel cells. Technological opportunities for improving end-use energy efficiency."	1	twoyear
43	Engineering Design with SolidWorks	"Introduces students to the engineering design processes utilizing the SolidWorks 3-D computer-aided design modeling application software. Students will construct parts, solid models, assemblies, as well as generate orthographic drawings, add dimensions and plot to produce engineering documentation packages."	1	twoyear
43	CSIS Computer Science Option Certificate	"The Computer Science Option certificate or degree program is designed for those interested in becoming programmers in a technical or scientific systems environment, or for students desiring transfer to a four-year computer science degree program."	1	cert
43	CSIS Digital & Web Design Certificate		1	cert
43	CSIS Network & Security Certificate or Associate Degree		1	cert
43	CSIS Network & Security Certificate or Associate Degree		1	twoyear
43	Construction – Sustainable Construction Associate Degree		1	twoyear
43	Construction – Sustainable Construction - Construction Management Certificate 		1	cert
43	Construction – Sustainable Construction Green Building Certificate		1	cert
43	Construction – Sustainable Construction – Sustainable Design		1	twoyear
43	Drafting & Design Engineering Technology Associate Degree	"The Drafting and Design Engineering Technology is a two-year program that combines drafting, engineering, and computer skills. Drafting and design engineering technologists prepare detailed drawings based on information, rough sketches, specifications, calculations and estimates prepared by other individuals or teams. A graduate of this program would qualify for employment in most drafting positions. Because the program is easily adapted to a number of specialized areas, it offers the opportunity for employment in architectural, construction, mechanical, electrical, and other related industries. This program also makes it possible for graduates to advance to a supervisory position in the drafting and design field. Completion of this program also enables the graduates to transfer to Engineering Technology or Industrial Technology programs at the baccalaureate level."	1	twoyear
43	Drafting & Design Engineering Technology Mechanical Certificate 	"Drafting and design engineering technologists prepare detailed drawings based on information, rough sketches, specifications, calculations and estimates prepared by other individuals or teams. Because the program is easily adapted to a number of specialized areas, it offers the opportunity for employment in architectural, construction, mechanical, electrical, and other related industries. This program also makes it possible for graduates of the Associate Degree to advance to a supervisory position in the drafting and design field."	1	cert
43	Engineering Associate Degree	"The Drafting and Design Engineering Technology is a two-year program that combines drafting, engineering, and computer skills. Drafting and design engineering technologists prepare detailed drawings based on information, rough sketches, specifications, calculations and estimates prepared by other individuals or teams. A graduate of this program would qualify for employment in most drafting positions. Because the program is easily adapted to a number of specialized areas, it offers the opportunity for employment in architectural, construction, mechanical, electrical, and other related industries. This program also makes it possible for graduates to advance to a supervisory position in the drafting and design field. Completion of this program also enables the graduates to transfer to Engineering Technology or Industrial Technology programs at the baccalaureate level."	1	twoyear
45	Mechanical Drafting and Design II	"Fundamental principles of research, planning, design and construction of mechanical devices and civil engineering projects: Industry standards for graphic document preparation; two- and three- dimensional drawings."	1	twoyear
45	Civil Engineer Drafting	"Fundamental principles of research, planning, design and construction of mechanical devices and civil engineering projects: Industry standards for graphic document preparation; two- and three- dimensional drawings."	1	twoyear
45	Intro to Sustainable Architectural Design Applications 	"Introduction to sustainable architectural and environmental design applications: Survey of green building precedents, trends in contemporary architectural design, and new sustainable technologies; creation of customized Green Building Standards Reference Guide; product and system selection; impact of new technologies as well as cultural, socioeconomic, and regulatory systems on green building design."	1	twoyear
45	Systems Principles for Sustainable Residential Adaptation 	"Introduction to local precedents in design: Materials, practices, and function from a systems point of view. Survey of historic construction practices, current trends in building design, construction and rehabilitation practices. Exploration of new technologies and regulatory systems’ impacts on maintenance of adaptation emphasizing indoor air quality, occupant comfort, and building durability."	1	twoyear
45	Intro to Operating Systems	"Designed to guide users through the intricacies of several operating systems: OS’s fi le system, internal commands, and support utilities. "	1	twoyear
45	Operating Systems Scripting	Creating custom scripts in several operating systems: Developing automated tasks.	1	twoyear
45	Data Communications and Networks	"Introduction to data communications and networks: Serial communications, modems, the phone network, file-transfer, protocols, X-modem, Z-modem, Kermit, physical networks, cabling, Arcnet, Ethernet, Tokenring, network operating systems, Novell, other networks, servers, work-stations, security, network administration, and alternatives to networks."	1	twoyear
45	Data Structures and Algorithms	"Use of abstract forms of data in programming: Concepts, and implementation and applicability of different forms of data to various programming problems."	1	twoyear
45	UNIX/LINUX Operating Systems 	"The Unix/Linux operating system: Emphasis on file system, e-mail, shell commands and programming, editing, programming tools, administrative structures, and utilities."	1	twoyear
45	Commercial Electricity for HVAC 	"Introduction to advanced commercial electricity for heating and air conditioning: High voltage singlephase and three-phase, transformers, capacitors, HVAC system controls, motor controls, HVAC electrical schematic diagrams, instrumentation, national codes and safety."	1	twoyear
45	Control Systems Networking for Building Automation 	"Introduction to global and local communication networks: Emphasis on design, installation and troubleshooting for building control systems using direct digital control systems."	1	twoyear
45	Intro to Photovoltaics	"Introduction to basic principles of photovoltaics: Arrays, the electrical power they generate, and their inclusion in the electrical system; power sources and energy storage techniques, and system attachment to structures. Hands on practice with photovoltaic (PV) power generation and its present and future applications."	1	twoyear
45	Lighting Efficiency Technology	"Current technology in energy efficient lighting control and systems: Latest advances in lamp, ballast, luminaire and control technologies as well as recent developments in energy legislation."	1	twoyear
45	The Sustainable Built Environment	"Introduction to water and resource conservation, renewable energy and energy efficiency: Principles, techniques and innovations in green building."	1	twoyear
45	Photovoltaic NABCEP Test Preparation	Preparation of NABCEP certification exam: Comprehension and application of key terms and concepts of photovoltaic (solar electric) system operation.	1	twoyear
45	Intro to Electrical Engineering 	"Introduction to electrical engineering: Basic circuit elements, modeling, critical laws and network theorems; techniques for analysis of lumped, linear circuits including operational amplifiers; analysis of AC circuits and power; semiconductor diodes and rectifier design."	1	twoyear
45	Fundamentals of Electricity for ECT	"Introduction to basic concepts of electricity: Ohm’s law, power, electrical circuits, electrical diagrams, magnetism and electromagnetism, instruments and tools used in the industry, safety procedures, and controls and motors."	1	twoyear
45	Intro to PC Hardware and Software for Building Technicians 	"Introduction to computer hardware and software: Practical computer skills, including computer components and functions; basics of Windows competency and fi le structure system; Excel, Visio and databases; Internet protocols and Ethernet cabling basics."	1	twoyear
45	Intro to Direct Digital Controls 	"Introduction to direct digital control systems and building automation systems: Basic electricity and electronics and overview of the various approaches to system architecture, hardware, software, and system components."	1	twoyear
45	Commercial HVAC Systems	"Introduction to the physical properties, interactive components, and methods for operating and controlling commercial HVAC systems: Thermodynamic principles of pressure, specific heat, specific volume, density and enthalpy; hydronic systems including boilers, chillers, cooling towers, water pumps, ventilation, filtration, air distribution, controls and instruments."	1	twoyear
45	Commercial HVAC Systems	"Introduction to troubleshooting procedures for commercial HVAC systems: Methods used for repairing, servicing and installing electrical and mechanical devices, including ventilation, filtration, air distribution, and air and water treatment systems."	1	twoyear
45	Green Construction Techniques and Materials 	"Introduction to green construction: Techniques and materials used in remodeling and new construction of homes and commercial jobs. All aspects of sustainability energy, design, recycling and systems."	1	twoyear
45	Energy Management and Efficiency for Buildings	"Introduction to technical and economic operating principles of electrical and mechanical devices for making cost-effective decisions and energy-efficient choices: Use of energy analysis software tools such as Energy+, Cal Arch, DOE 2, and others."	1	twoyear
45	HVAC Installation Practices	"Introduction to practical applications of residential and light commercial HVAC systems: Proper procedures for sizing and installing electrical and mechanical devices, HVAC equipment, ventilation, filtration, flue pipes (flex, square and rigid duct pipes)."	1	twoyear
45	Mechanical and Electrical Devices 	"Introduction to fundamentals of electricity and electronics as applied to HVAC&R operations: Ohm’s law, power and electrical instruments, basic electrical AC and DC circuits, electrical and mechanical devices, and electrical and electronic controls."	1	twoyear
45	HVAC Systems Design	"Introduction to concepts and principles for the design of commercial HVAC systems and system controls: All-air systems, all-water systems, and air-water systems."	1	twoyear
45	Introduction to Control Systems Networking	"Installation and use of common digital control system networks: Practices for the installation of some of the standards, such as MS/TP, ARCNET, LONWORKS, Ethernet networks, etc.; benefits of each type of network and diagnosis of common network problems."	1	twoyear
45	Measurement of Building Energy Efficiency 2	Quantitative study of typical residential energy conservation options: Introduction to elements of residential wood frame construction; testing and evaluation of strategies to optimize residential building envelope and systems efficiencies; introduction to residential energy analysis software.	1	twoyear
45	Energy Auditing and Computer Analysis of Building Efficiency	"Application of techniques and processes in residential energy auditing: Field analysis procedures; inventorying of governmental and utility incentives for energy conservation; use of ACCA Manual J design software, DOE2.2 and other related computer modeling software; verification and computer model results with data collected in the lab and field."	1	twoyear
45	The Financial Case for Clean Energy 	Introduction to financial principles and policies for energy and renewable energy: Financial analysis software to identify cost-effective energy efficiency and renewable energy projects; effective sales strategies and presentation skills for energy efficiency and renewable energy investments.	1	twoyear
45	Engineering Technology Associate Degree and Certificate		1	twoyear
45	Engineering Technology Associate Degree and Certificate		1	cert
45	Computer Information Systems Associate Degree	"The Computer Information Systems (CIS) Department provides students with the computer skills necessary to find employment, and the analytic and technical knowledge necessary to progress to four-year institutions. The CIS department at Laney College offers courses in computer programming languages and systems that are transferable and articulated with UC and CSU schools (check with www.assist.org for more information). Also offered are technical courses and programs that are in high-demand areas of software and systems design, development and applications."	1	twoyear
45	Computer Programming Associate Degree and Certificate 	"The major in Computer Programming prepares students for careers as software developers. The program provides the analytical, methodological, and language skills required within the computer industry, and serves as a partial foundation for continued education at four-year institutions."	1	twoyear
45	Computer Programming Associate Degree and Certificate 	"The major in Computer Programming prepares students for careers as software developers. The program provides the analytical, methodological, and language skills required within the computer industry, and serves as a partial foundation for continued education at four-year institutions."	1	cert
45	Electrical Technology Associate Degree/Certificate		1	twoyear
45	Electrical Technology Associate Degree/Certificate		1	cert
45	"Solar Photovoltaics Design, Sales and Installation Certificate"	"The Solar Photovoltaic Design, Sales and Installation program prepares students for careers in the growing solar industry. Students will learn to design solar PV systems, estimate the costs and savings for the client, formulate and deliver a sales pitch on the benefits of an investment in solar, and install PV systems. Students will be prepared to take the NABCEP certification test upon completion."	1	cert
45	Engineering Transfer Degree	"Engineers design the systems, structures and products that keep the world running. Engineers specialize in one of a wide range of fields such as electrical engineering, mechanical engineering, chemical engineering, materials engineering, industrial engineering, civil engineering, and more. Depending on specialization, engineers can find work in a wide range of different settings from a manufacturing plant in Silicon Valley or energy efficient construction project in San Francisco to road building in Africa, petroleum exploration in the North Sea, or design of new nanotechnology products at a national laboratory. Laney College offers the lower division engineering major preparation courses for transfer in good standing to colleges and universities across California and the U.S. Engineering involves the application of scientific and mathematical principles to solve practical technical problems. In addition to the engineering courses, the preparation typically includes coursework in the sciences and mathematics, for example: Chemistry 1Aand 1B (additional courses required for chemical Engineering), Physics 4A, 4B, and 4C, and Math 2A, 3A, 3B, 3C, 3E, and 3F. Because specific requirements vary among colleges and universities and between majors in different branches of engineering, students seeking transfer with an engineering major should consult with a Laney counselor to develop an appropriate Student Education Plan (SEP) and review CSU and UC engineering articulation agreements via the ASSIST website (www.assist.org) to ensure that all required courses for the major are completed."	1	twoyear
45	Building Automation Systems Associate Degree and Certificate	"Building Automation Systems prepares students to install, service, operate, maintain, and troubleshoot building automation systems (BAS) in commercial buildings, controlling Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC) Systems, energy management systems, as well as lighting and security systems. Students who complete this program can significantly impact building energy consumption. Graduates can seek employment as building automation technicians and control systems technicians with manufacturers, vendors, service companies, and large facilities, such as government and education facilities, hospitals, and office buildings."	1	twoyear
45	Building Automation Systems Associate Degree and Certificate	"Building Automation Systems prepares students to install, service, operate, maintain, and troubleshoot building automation systems (BAS) in commercial buildings, controlling Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC) Systems, energy management systems, as well as lighting and security systems. Students who complete this program can significantly impact building energy consumption. Graduates can seek employment as building automation technicians and control systems technicians with manufacturers, vendors, service companies, and large facilities, such as government and education facilities, hospitals, and office buildings."	1	cert
45	Building Performance and Energy Efficiency Certificate 	"Introduction to technical and economic operating principles of electrical and mechanical devices for making cost-effective decisions and energy-efficient choices: Use of energy analysis software tools such as Energy+, Cal Arch, DOE 2, and others."	1	cert
45	Commercial HVAC Systems Associate Degree and Certificate 		1	twoyear
45	Commercial HVAC Systems Associate Degree and Certificate 		1	cert
45	Energy Efficiency Sales and Auditing Certificate 	"The Energy Efficiency Sales and Auditing program prepares students for careers in the rapidly growing residential and light commercial energy efficiency sector. Students will learn building science, how to make the financial case for an investment in energy efficiency, and energy auditing to national Building Performance Institute (BPS) standards. Students will be prepared to take the BPI certification course and test upon completion."	1	cert
45	Residential and Light Commercial HVAC & R Associate Degree and Certificate 		1	twoyear
45	Residential and Light Commercial HVAC & R Associate Degree and Certificate 		1	cert
46	Web Programming 	"The objective of this course is to develop skills and understanding in designing web pages using ""static"" and ""dynamic"" HTML tags for page layouts, hypertext links, site navigation, multimedia presentations, and audiovisual special effects. To enhance web site appearance and functionality, JavaScript will also be introduced. Participants will learn to use various web programming tools such as HTML editors, graphic image editors, graphic animators, and image map makers. Participants will also learn proper web design principles and develop web pages based upon current mainstream browser capabilities and limitations."	1	twoyear
46	Java Servlets and JSP 	"Introduction to basic Java Servlet capabilities as an alternative to Common Gateway Interface (CGI) to create interactive web pages including secure access to the web site, database interactivity, generate dynamic web pages and maintain client session data (i.e., cookies)."	1	twoyear
46	Advanced Web Programming 	"The objective of this course is to develop skills and understanding in designing eCommerce websites. This is a programming course that goes beyond mere ""formatting"" of web pages found with HyperText Markup Language (HTML). This course extends web page ""functionality"" with interactivity, multimedia, security, and database capability using prior knowledge of a scripting language (HTML, JavaScript, etc.). The participant will learn about database sorting and filtering capabilities of eXtensible Markup language (XML) that identifies data fields (e.g., to refer to auto manufacturers). The participant will also learn eXtensible Stylesheet Language (XSL) - which specifies the presentation of a class of XML documents by describing how an instance of the class is transformed into an XML document that uses the formatting vocabulary. SXL is based on and extends the Document Style Semantics and Specification Language (DSSSL) and the Cascading Style Sheet, level 1 (CSS1) standards. Additional topics include good design principles, examples of scripts (JavaScript, ASP, ActiveX, VBScript, Servlets, JSP, PERL or CGI), discussion of security (SET, SSL, etc.), and examples of ""good, bad, ugly"" eCommerce websites. "	1	twoyear
46	Database Programming 	"This is a programming course that goes beyond mere ""desktop"" database management. Participants explore dynamic applications that interact with a database using client-side scripts, server-side scripts, and compiled server programs. Learn database concepts, relational database principles, and Structured Query Language (SQL). "	1	twoyear
46	Web Development: HTML/XHTML 	"Introduction to publishing on the World Wide Web (WWW).  Topics include: creating Web pages with markup languages, including HTML/XHTML, file management for the Web, and uploading files via File Transfer Protocol (FTP) to a web server.  This course includes coding with mark up languages, cascading style sheets, and introduction to scripting (JavaScript), the use of images and other media (audio, video) on the Web, and interactive tools like forms and image maps.  This course prepares apprentice Web designers and developers to identify the information needs of a client, design appropriate WWW solutions, and implement them."	1	twoyear
46	Web Development: Web Design Technologies and Tools 	"A survey of the languages and tools used to author Web pages. Introduction to the basics of HTML/XHTML and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) and explains how to develop basic Web pages using Dreamweaver authoring tool. Learn how to create and manipulate images and animation with Adobe Photoshop, ImageReady, Fireworks, and Flash. Add interactivity to your Web pages using JavaScript and DHTML. Students will create many different applications ranging from simple Web pages that link to other Web pages, animations that run within a Web page, and JavaScript programs that interact with visitors to a Web site. "	1	twoyear
46	Networking Fundamentals 	"This course is a foundation course that explains and describes how computer networks are designed, installed, and administrated. Introduction to communications concepts, data communications, networking, and Internetworking. Review of major network components: hardware, software, protocols (TCP/IP, IPX/SPX, NETBEUI), topologies, and cabling. Overview of LAN administration, setup, and installation. Preparation for the Network+ certification exam. Students may receive credit for either Computer Information Systems 66 or Computer Networking Technology 52, but are limited to a total of two times in any combination. "	1	twoyear
46	Networking Fundamentals 	"This course is a foundation course that explains and describes how computer networks are designed, installed, and administrated. Introduction to communications concepts, data communications, networking, and internetworking. Review of major network components: hardware, software, protocols (TCP/IP, IPX/SPX, NETBEUI), topologies, and cabling. Overview of LAN administration, setup, and installation. Preparation for the Network+ certification exam."	1	twoyear
46	Wireless Networks and Security CWNA 	"This course will prepare students to plan, purchase, and install a small to medium-sized wireless or WIFI HotSpot network and secure it, and meets the needs of small businesses, SOHO (Small Office, Home Office) workers, telecommuters, and home wireless networks. Subjects covered include: wireless network access, modems, routers, firewalls, war-driving, security, compatibility, site survey and network planning, basic network administration, basic network troubleshooting, and objectives of the CWNA wireless networking exam."	1	twoyear
46	Network Security Sec+ 	"Following the Sec+ certification objectives, an introduction to the concepts and practices of secure network design and management using desktop and network operating systems, router and switch operating systems, hardware and software Firewall and VPN technology for wired and wireless systems. The program will include authentication methods and devices, protocol analysis and IP network troubleshooting, strategies for identifying and countering vulnerabilities, network medias and topologies in a secure network, intrusion detection and forensic incident response."	1	twoyear
46	Adv Prog w/Data Structures/C++ 	"Design and implementation of larger programs in C++ using software engineering principles. Emphasis on definition and use of data structures. Includes specification of abstract data types, recursion, dynamic memory allocation, stacks, linked lists, queues, binary trees, random access files, and use of hash codes."	1	twoyear
46	C# Programming 	"This course introduces Windows and Web applications programming in C# for the student already familiar with the concepts of programming. C# builds on the skills for students who are familiar with C++, Java, Visual Basic, or other high-level language, enabling them to create powerful applications using C# including ADO.NET, and ASP.NET. The following concepts are introduced: introduction to object-oriented programming including methods, inheritance, and arrays; exception handling techniques; C# GUI development; multithreading; strings, characters, and regular expressions; graphics and multimedia; files and streams; extending C# applications to include XML, ADO.NET database access, and ASP.NET Web services."	1	twoyear
46	Radio Communications II 	"Continuation of Electronics Technology 56A with emphasis on advanced circuits, total systems, and new technology. Transmission line theory, wave propagation, antenna theory, control systems, digital modulation techniques, transmitter and receiver combining, and electromagnetic interference control."	1	twoyear
46	Computer Assembly and Usage 	"Basic introduction to the hardware and software components that comprise a personal computer. Examination of the types of CPU's available, mass storage devices, memory types and common input/output devices. The graphical user interface and operating system requirements are reviewed. Internet, networking and multi-media applications are demonstrated. Students will have the opportunity to assembly and use an IBM compatible personal computer in the laboratory. Troubleshooting techniques for personal computers are presented."	1	twoyear
46	PC Troubleshooting/User Maint 	"Techniques for maintenance of personal computers. Computer troubleshooting methods, procedures and applications. How to apply practical, step-by-step strategies to diagnose common hardware and software malfunctions, perform system upgrades and boost your PC's performance. Emphasis on the main steps for modem troubleshooting; analyze and isolate PC problems."	1	twoyear
46	Networking Fundamentals 	"Preparation for the Network+ certification exam. Introduction to communications concepts, data communications networking, and internetworking. Review of major network components: hardward, software, protocols (TCP/IP, IPX/SPX, NETBEUI), topologies, and cabling. Overview of LAN administration, setup, and installation."	1	twoyear
46	Intro to Circuit Analysis 	"Analysis of introductory engineering AC and DC circuits. Natural, forced, and complete circuit response."	1	twoyear
46	ENERGY AND SUSTAINABILITY 	"Introduction and exploration of Energy production, utilization, management, and the effects on society, and the environment.  This course will also compare and contrast current and future renewable and non-renewable methods of energy generation, auditing, and conservation."	1	twoyear
46	Computer Science Degree Program 	This degree prepares students for transfer to four-year institutions for continued study in computer science. The program outlined fulfills typical lower-division requirements at four-year transfer institutions.	1	twoyear
46	Computer Information Systems Program - Computer Applications Software (Microcomputers) Certificate 	"This program introduces microcomputer applications, focusing on the most widely used applications of word processing, spreadsheets and databases. This certificate prepares students for employment in many entry-level positions using business software."	1	cert
46	Network Security and Administration Associate Degree 		1	twoyear
46	Computer Network Technician Certificate 		1	cert
46	Network and Wireless Security Certificate 		1	cert
46	Computer Programming Certificate and Associate Degree 	"The curriculum is designed to prepare students for employment as computer programming professionals. Programming professionals in this field have a variety of titles, such as Programmer, Programmer/Analyst, Business Analyst, Systems Analyst, Computer Scientist, Information Technologist, Information Systems Professional, Information Technology Professional, Programming Professional, Software Developer, or Software Engineer."	1	twoyear
46	Computer Programming Certificate and Associate Degree 	"The curriculum is designed to prepare students for employment as computer programming professionals. Programming professionals in this field have a variety of titles, such as Programmer, Programmer/Analyst, Business Analyst, Systems Analyst, Computer Scientist, Information Technologist, Information Systems Professional, Information Technology Professional, Programming Professional, Software Developer, or Software Engineer."	1	cert
46	Computer Programming for the Web Associate Degree 	"The curriculum is designed to prepare students for employment as computer programming professionals in the web. Programming professionals in this field have a variety of titles, such as Webmaster, Programmer, Programmer/Analyst, Business Analyst, Systems Analyst, Computer Scientist, Information Technologist, Information Systems Professional, Information Technology Professional, Programming Professional, Software Developer, or Software Engineer."	1	twoyear
46	Electronics Technology Certificate and Associate Degree 	"The Electronics programs are designed to prepare students for a variety of career opportunities in the fields of electronics, computers, and related technologies. Students may prepare for direct job entry as technicians in computer sales, installation and repair. The Electronics Telecommunications Systems AS and Certificate programs prepare students for entry-level employment as technicians in the Electronics Communications (Telecommunications) fields."	1	twoyear
46	Electronics Technology Certificate and Associate Degree 	"The Electronics programs are designed to prepare students for a variety of career opportunities in the fields of electronics, computers, and related technologies. Students may prepare for direct job entry as technicians in computer sales, installation and repair. The Electronics Telecommunications Systems AS and Certificate programs prepare students for entry-level employment as technicians in the Electronics Communications (Telecommunications) fields."	1	cert
46	Engineering Transfer Program (Degree Program) 	"This accredited and articulated program provides lower division engineering, mathematics, and science courses to prepare students to transfer to a four year institution to pursue an engineering degree. By completing the equivalent of a two-year lower-division program of courses, engineering students will be able to transfer to virtually any four-year college or university within California, or in other states."	1	twoyear
46	Environmental Studies Degree Program 	"The AA Degree program in Environmental Studies is a multi-disciplinary program which provides students the academic foundation for understanding the scientific and technological basis of energy technology, as well as the political, environmental, and economic factors that underlie the energy policy choices, at both the national and global levels, our students will make throughout their professional careers and also as informed citizens."	1	twoyear
48	Computer Science 	"The Computer Science degree provides a comprehensive exposure to computer science in preparation for upper-division computer science courses. The program also prepares students for entry level employment in the computer and related industries. The Computer Science Associate in Science (A.S.) Degree may be obtained by completion of the required program, plus general education requirements"	1	twoyear
48	Networking and Security 	"This degree is designed to give students currently employed as an Information Technology (IT) Professional the additional skill sets necessary to work in this rapidly growing field. This degree covers some of the critical skill sets for the International Information Systems Security Certification Consortium (ISC)2 Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) exam, which is recognized as an international standard for an Information Systems Security (ISS) Professional. This certificate is designed to give students currently employed as an Information Technology (IT) professional or those currently working on their Networking degree the additional skill sets necessary to work in this rapidly growing field. This certificate covers some of the critical skill sets for the International Information Systems Security Certification Consortium (ISC)2’s Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) certification, which is recognized as an international standard for the Information Systems Security (ISS) professional."	1	twoyear
48	Networking and Security 	"This degree is designed to give students currently employed as an Information Technology (IT) Professional the additional skill sets necessary to work in this rapidly growing field. This degree covers some of the critical skill sets for the International Information Systems Security Certification Consortium (ISC)2 Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) exam, which is recognized as an international standard for an Information Systems Security (ISS) Professional. This certificate is designed to give students currently employed as an Information Technology (IT) professional or those currently working on their Networking degree the additional skill sets necessary to work in this rapidly growing field. This certificate covers some of the critical skill sets for the International Information Systems Security Certification Consortium (ISC)2’s Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) certification, which is recognized as an international standard for the Information Systems Security (ISS) professional."	1	cert
48	Electrical/Instrumentation Technology 	"LMC is in a unique position to offer an outstanding, up-to-date curriculum that has been designed by industry for industry.  No other college in this area provides similar education and training needed to obtain these high-skilled, high-wage and high-demand jobs.Our ETEC program offers you the opportunity to graduate with a Certificate of Achievement in four semesters (two years).  There are two areas of specialization:  Electrical Technician or Instrumentation Technician.  The Electrical Technician specialization is designed to train electricians to maintain complex electrical automation systems used in the manufacturing and power generation industry.  The Instrumentation Technician specialization is designed to train instrument technicians to maintain the process measurement and control systems used in refineries, chemical plants, biotech plants, pharmaceutical plants, water and waste treatment plants."	1	twoyear
48	Electrical/Instrumentation Technology 	"LMC is in a unique position to offer an outstanding, up-to-date curriculum that has been designed by industry for industry.  No other college in this area provides similar education and training needed to obtain these high-skilled, high-wage and high-demand jobs.Our ETEC program offers you the opportunity to graduate with a Certificate of Achievement in four semesters (two years).  There are two areas of specialization:  Electrical Technician or Instrumentation Technician.  The Electrical Technician specialization is designed to train electricians to maintain complex electrical automation systems used in the manufacturing and power generation industry.  The Instrumentation Technician specialization is designed to train instrument technicians to maintain the process measurement and control systems used in refineries, chemical plants, biotech plants, pharmaceutical plants, water and waste treatment plants."	1	cert
48	Engineering Engineering Technology 	"Engineers design and oversee the construction of the structures, vehicles, devices, and processes that solve the technological problems facing society.  Engineering is a profession with both licensing requirements and a code of ethics. The LMC Engineering Program offers a solid foundation for upper division studies in most engineering fields, including mechanical engineering, civil engineering, electrical engineering, aerospace engineering, industrial engineering, and many other engineering disciplines. Students who complete the program will have finished most or all of the lower division courses required for transfer to four-year engineering programs.  Graduates of the Engineering Program at LMC will also be able to: identify and solve engineering problems, perform and interpret experiments, produce designs to meet various needs, demonstrate professional ethics, communicate effectively, judge how engineering projects affect society and the environment, engage in lifelong learning, and use the tools and techniques necessary for modern engineering practice.  "	1	twoyear
48	Engineering Engineering Technology 	"Engineers design and oversee the construction of the structures, vehicles, devices, and processes that solve the technological problems facing society.  Engineering is a profession with both licensing requirements and a code of ethics. The LMC Engineering Program offers a solid foundation for upper division studies in most engineering fields, including mechanical engineering, civil engineering, electrical engineering, aerospace engineering, industrial engineering, and many other engineering disciplines. Students who complete the program will have finished most or all of the lower division courses required for transfer to four-year engineering programs.  Graduates of the Engineering Program at LMC will also be able to: identify and solve engineering problems, perform and interpret experiments, produce designs to meet various needs, demonstrate professional ethics, communicate effectively, judge how engineering projects affect society and the environment, engage in lifelong learning, and use the tools and techniques necessary for modern engineering practice.  "	1	cert
49	Database Software	"This course will cover the study of concepts, terminology uses and applications of database software in homes and small businesses. Students will examine and learn to use software such as Microsoft Access to organize and store data and information."	1	twoyear
49	Database Systems 	"This course will introduce relational database management concepts using a modern database management system. Topics will include schema design, database creation, data manipulation, report generation, queries using SQL, and data normalization."	1	twoyear
49	Web Page Design & Development	"This course will present technologies and best practices for the creation of web content, as well as discussion of the structure of the web. Tools and assignments will focus on design using current W3C standards for content and presentation."	1	twoyear
49	Intro to Computer Science	"This course will present an overview of computers and computer science. Lecture and hands-on assignments cover a wide range of topics, from bits and transistors to 3D games and the Internet. Other topics include data representation, computing components, low- and high-level programming languages, algorithm design, operating systems, information systems, simulation and graphics. Students will give short presentations on current events and near-future technology changes. This course is suitable for all majors and is a recommended first course for Computer Science majors."	1	twoyear
49	Cisco Networking Academies I	"This Cisco Networking Academies program is designed to teach students the skills needed to design, build, and maintain smallto medium-sized networks. This will provide the student with the opportunity to enter the workforce and/ or further their education and training in the computer networking field."	1	twoyear
49	Cisco Networking Academies II	"This is the second course in the Cisco Networking Academies program which is designed to teach students the skills needed to design, build, and maintain small to medium-sized networks. This will provide the student with the opportunity to enter the workforce and/or further their education and training in the computer networking field."	1	twoyear
49	Cisco Networking Academies III	"This is the third course in the Cisco Networking Academies program which is designed to teach students the skills needed to design, build, and maintain small- to medium sized networks. This will provide the student with the opportunity to enter the workforce and/or further their education and training in the computer networking field."	1	twoyear
49	Cisco Networking Academies IV 	"This is the fourth course in the Cisco Networking Academies program which is designed to teach students the skills needed to design, build, and maintain small- to medium sized networks. This will provide the student with the opportunity to enter the workforce and/or further their education and training in the computer networking field."	1	twoyear
49	Home Comp Security	"This course prepares students to take the CompTIA Security + certification exam. Topics include systems security, network infrastructure, access control, assessments and audits, cryptography, organizational security, and other topics as appropriate for the current Security+ exam."	1	twoyear
49	Sustainability Overview	"This course introduces students to the concepts and principles that define Sustainability in current political, scientific and economic discourse. Through examination of the current state of the world students develop sustainability literacy in relation to environmental, social, and economic systems. Students are introduced to current and evolving responses to sustainability challenges and learn to assess potential viability and impact of these responses. An emphasis is placed on preparing students to take an active role in addressing sustainability challenges personally and professionally. Student projects help students integrate sustainability strategies into their own lives."	1	twoyear
49	Intro to Green Business Principles and Practices	"This course introduces students to the concepts, principles, and practices that define a green business. Students learn the importance of including environmental and social considerations in business products, services, and operations and effective methods for doing so. Topics covered include the opportunities and challenges of starting a green business, greening an existing business, triple bottom line accounting, understanding your market, green-washing pitfalls, competitive advantage, life cycle analysis, localization, resource depletion, regulatory trends, and carbon regulation."	1	twoyear
49	Intro to CleanTech	"Clean Technology has recently emerged as the leading descriptor for a diverse range of products, services, and processes that harness renewable materials and energy sources, dramatically reduce the use of natural resources, and cut or eliminate emissions and wastes. This course offers an introductory survey of the technologies, trends, and opportunities that define this emerging field."	1	twoyear
49	Construction Fundamentals and Green Building	"This course introduces students to the fundamentals of residential construction and remodeling. Students learn the basic concepts and skills needed to prepare for entry-level employment in the construction industry. This course includes instruction and practice in the application of basic math skills for construction and the safe use of construction power tools. Students are introduced to green building concepts, techniques, and materials as they relate to new code requirements and employment opportunities."	1	twoyear
49	The New Green Economy: Trends and Opportunities	"This course offers an overview of green business trends and opportunities as they continue to emerge across a wide range of economic sectors. Students examine the cultural, scientific, and regulatory factors underlying the growth of the green economy, assess trends and opportunities within various sectors, and learn skills and strategies for pursuing employment or starting a green business. Industry sectors discussed include, energy, transportation, manufacturing, building trades, food and farming, waste, media, health and wellness, and consulting."	1	twoyear
49	Intro to Residential Electrical Systems	"This course introduces students to the fundamentals of electricity as applied in residential construction and renovation. Students are introduced to the general principles of electricity, job site considerations, and safety practices. Proper use of tools and materials will be demonstrated and applied in a lab setting. This course includes an introduction to the National Electric Code (NEC), content on energy efficiency, and prepares students for employment and certification options."	1	twoyear
49	Intro to Photovoltaics	"This course introduces students to the fundamentals of photovoltaic (solar) technology and the process of residential PV system design and installation. This course includes instruction and practice in site evaluation, basic financial analysis, and code compliant PV system design and installation. Students learn basic concepts and skills needed to work with potential clients and prepare for entry level employment in the solar PV industry."	1	twoyear
49	Residential Solar Thermal (Hot Water)	"This course introduces students to the technology, applications, design, and installation of residential solar thermal (hot water) systems. This course includes instruction and practice in site evaluation, basic financial analysis, and code compliant system design and installation. Students learn about different types of solar thermal applications such as passive solar water heaters, drain-back systems, antifreeze systems, photovoltaic powered systems, pool heating systems, and radiant space heating systems. Students participate in site evaluation, simulated client interaction, and the design and installation of a demonstration system."	1	twoyear
49	Efficient Heating and Cooling	"This course integrates energy efficiency and building performance principles with entry level HVAC knowledge and skill advancement. Students use an understanding of efficiency and performance principles to guide in the proper sizing, system design, and installation of typical residential heating and cooling technology. Students learn how to determine proper heat load and cooling load calculations using typical manual J methods, how to install, run ducts, wire, and program typical HVAC equipment. This course includes an overview of HVAC career opportunities and certification options."	1	twoyear
49	Intro to HVAC maintenance and Repair	"This course introduces students to HVAC maintenance, service, and repair. Students are given an overview of common heaters andair conditioners and gain hands-on experience in practicing preventive maintenance, troubleshooting, and repair. This course includes an overview of service technician training and certification opportunities and instruction on in-home customer service."	1	twoyear
49	Developing Web Applications 	"This course will explore serverside web programming, focusing on developing projects in a language such as PHP, Python, Perl, or any ASP.NET language. Students will develop scripts and web applications to create and support dynamic web content. This course also includes discussion and projects related to security and database integration."	1	twoyear
49	Automotive Electrical Systems	"Electrical principles, theory and operation of automotive batteries, charging, starting, ignition and accessory circuits, emphasizing the development of diagnostic and service skills and the use of modern diagnostic equipment. Preparation for ASE (National Institute for Automotive Service Excellence) certification is emphasized. Course may not meet major requirements at transfer institutions."	1	twoyear
49	Manual Transmissions/Power Trains	"Design, operation, diagnosis, service, and repair of modern automotive manual transmissions, transaxles, clutches, transfer cases, and rear axles. Preparation for ASE certification is emphasized. Course may not meet major requirements at transfer institutions."	1	twoyear
49	Automatic Transmissions/Power Trains	"Design, operation, diagnosis, service, and repair of modern automotive automatic transmissions and transaxles. Preparation for ASE and ATRA certification is emphasized. Course may not meet major requirements at transfer institutions."	1	twoyear
49	Automotive Air Conditioning/Heating Systems	"Basic operating principles, diagnosis, and servicing of modern automotive heating and air conditioning systems, emphasizing the development of diagnostic and service skills including servicing, evacuating, charging, flushing, and recycling of materials. Preparation for ASE (National Institute for Automotive Service Excellence) certification is emphasized. Course may not meet major requirements at transfer institutions."	1	twoyear
49	Computer Applications and Office Administration Certificate	"The Certificate in Computer and Information Applications prepares students for positions that combine technical knowledge with business aptitude. Career areas include the design, implementation, use and maintenance/management of office IT systems, as well as other administrative and commercial positions."	1	cert
49	Networking and Security Certificate	"Networking professionals are a vital part of many businesses, and these skills are highly sought by such employers. The Networking and Security certificate helps prepare students for positions known variously as network/systems administrator, network/systems engineer, network/systems technician, and network/systems analyst."	1	cert
49	Sustainable Technology Construction Certificate 	"This certificate combines competencies in sustainability, construction technical trade skills, and entrepreneurial business. The combination of these competencies prepares students for emerging opportunities in modern construction and residential remodeling and retrofitting. Students completing this certificate will be well positioned to gain employment or start a business in fields such as green building and remodeling, building performance auditing and retrofitting, electrical, plumbing, and related trades."	1	cert
49	Sustainable Technology – Renewable Energy 	"This certificate combines competencies in sustainability, renewable energy technical skills, and entrepreneurial business. The combination of these competencies prepares students for emerging opportunities in the rapidly expanding renewable energy sector.  Students completing this certificate will be well positioned to gain employment or start a business in fields such as photovoltaic design and installation and solar hot water installation."	1	cert
49	Sustainable Technology – Residential Performance and Efficiency 	"This certificate combines competencies in sustainability, residential efficiency, heating and cooling, and entrepreneurial business skills. The combination of these competencies prepares students for emerging opportunities in building performance auditing, retrofitting, and efficient heating and cooling. Students completing this certificate will be well positioned to gain employment or start a business in fields such as efficiency upgrade retrofitting, building performance auditing, HVAC, and related trades."	1	cert
49	Web and Database Development	"The Web and Database Development certificate prepares students for positions designing, implementing and maintaining web content. Skills include client and server-side web design and development, as well as programmatic interaction with databases."	1	cert
49	Automotive Technician Certificate		1	cert
49	Automotive Technology Associate Degree		1	twoyear
49	Computer Applications and Office Administration Associate Degree	"Automotive Technology prepares students for entry level positions in the automotive repair and maintenance service fields. To those students who are working in a branch of the Automotive Technology area, this program offers opportunities for advancement as well as expanding their basic knowledge of this career field. The program provides a knowledge range from contemporary basic automotive technology to advanced automotive electronics."	1	twoyear
49	Computer Science Associate Degree	"The Associate of Science Degree in Computer Science prepares students for transfer to a baccalaureate program in the field. Make sure to see a counselor for transfer requirements unique to specific schools. Computer Science is at the core of all modern science and engineering, and has provided many of the most influential cultural and economic developments in recent history. Graduates can work in a great variety of fields and pursuits, including programming, systems analysis and administration, game design, project leadership and management."	1	twoyear
50	Programming Concepts and Methodology I	"This course introduces the discipline of computer science using a high-level language, and provides an overview of computer organization and an introduction to software engineering. Topics include methodologies for program design, development, style, testing, and documentation, algorithms, control structures, sub-programs, and elementary data structures. These skills will be used to solve a variety of application problems. "	1	twoyear
50	Programming Concepts and Methodology II	"This course is a continuation course in Computer Science which introduces further aspects of software design and implementation. Abstract data types, fundamental data structures and associated algorithms: lists, stacks, queues and trees. Students will be expected to design, implement, test and analyze a number of programs."	1	twoyear
50	Intro to Management Information Systems	"This is an entry-level course for business majors, students majoring in Computer Science or Management Information Systems, or anyone interested in the fundamentals of computer information systems and gaining an understanding of fundamental programming concepts. Algorithm design, logic diagrams, coding, and debugging are introduced using a third generation programming language. "	1	twoyear
50	Networking Topologies and Cabling	"This is a course designed to provide the student with information and knowledge to prepare for the industry-standard Building Industry Consulting Service International (BICSI) Register installer. Level I exam, and employment as a telecommunications cabling installer. Students will gain an understanding of the cabling industry, U.S. and international standards, basic networking, signal transmission, copper cabling, fiber optics, installation, safety, structured cabling system basics, cable management, cable testing, and emerging technologies. Students will also be prepared to read network design documentation, architectural blueprints, set up part parts lists, purchase components, pull and mount cable, choose wiring closets, install jacks, and perform cable testing."	1	twoyear
50	Networking for Home and Small Businesses	"This curriculum helps students develop the skills needed to obtain entry-level networking jobs. It provides a hands-on approach to networking education that allows students to gain practical experience working on PC’s, their components and applications. Students complete instructional labs to understand the general theory needed to build networks and connect them to the internet. Basic security and wireless concepts are covered. It is for students with basic PC usage skills."	1	twoyear
50	Designing and Supporting Comp Networks	"This course introduces students to network design processes using two examples; a large stadium enterprise network and a medium-sized film company network. Students follow a standard design process to expand and upgrade each network, which includes requirements gathering, proof-of-concept, and project management. Lifecycle services, including upgrades, competitive analyses, and system integration, are presented in the context of pre-sale support. In addition to the Packet Tracer and lab exercises found in the previous courses, there are many pen-and-paper and role-playing exercises that students complete while developing their network upgrade proposals."	1	twoyear
50	"Electrical Motors, Generators, Transformers and AC Distribution"	"This course covers principles of AC and DC motors, generators, transformers, three-phase generation, and AC distribution systems. The course content will include lecture, demonstration, and laboratory projects using motors and transformers."	1	twoyear
50	Power Transmission 	"This course covers theory and application of power transmission through chains, belts, gear trains, and augers, including system layout, setup, alignment, adjustment, timing, and maintenance. The student will study peripheral components and systems typical of industrial applications and their related components, such as bearings, seals, shafts, and safety devices. Requirements of preventive maintenance, system troubleshooting, and lubrication schedules are also covered."	1	twoyear
50	Ventilation & Air Conditioning Systems	This course will enable students to identify and understand the operation of various components and systems found in air conditioning refrigeration systems. Students will perform diagnostic and repair procedures on air conditioning refrigeration systems and related equipment. Thermodynamic and psychometric principles as they relate to air conditioning systems will be covered.	1	twoyear
50	"Microcontrollers, Programming, and Interfacing with Robotics Applications"	"This course covers basic constructing and programming 8-bit Programmable Intelligent Computer (PICmicro) microcontrollers found in computerized systems with emphasis on robotics applications. Characteristics, capabilities, and limitations of other microcontrollers are discussed. RISC (Reduced Instructions Set Computing), hardware structure, programming, and interfacing methods are also covered."	1	twoyear
50	Industrial Instrumentation and process Control	"This course is designed to study instrumentation sensors and controls that are used in industrial process control and automation. The course includes the study of the principles of operation and the practical applications of instrumentation in industry. Topics such as decibels, micro-controllers, levers, friction, clutches and brakes, tooth rotor tachometers, vision sensors, dynamic braking of DC motors, and flux vector AC drives will be addressed."	1	twoyear
50	Digital Logic Circuits and Systems	"The course covers the theory of digital logic circuits and systems. Analog and digital conversion circuits, number systems and codes, Boolean algebra, Karnaugh maps, logic gates, counters, multi-vibrators, registers, decoders, counters, memories, and clock and timing circuits are also studied. Programmable logic devices and microprocessors will be introduced."	1	twoyear
50	Programmable Logic Controllers	"This course provides electrical and industrial electronic students with basic skills and technical exposure to programmable logic controllers (PLCs). The subjects studied include terminology, programming methods, and operation of the programmable logic controller. The students will program and operate modern PLCs as a part of laboratory assignments."	1	twoyear
50	Intro to Engineering	"This course covers three areas: a description of engineering careers, a factual comparison of engineering degrees and transfer universities, and a discussion of the academic skills required to earn an engineering degree. Successful students will be able to articulate their engineering career goals. The course includes laboratory activities and field trips to engineering companies."	1	twoyear
50	Elementary Mechanics	"This course is the study of rigid bodies when acted upon by forces and couples in 2-D and 3-D space. Included are trusses, frames, machines, beams, friction, centroids, centers of mass, and moments of inertia."	1	twoyear
50	Intro to Environmental Technology	"This course will provide the student with an overview of the history and effects of pollution, and an examination of the early legislation that was formulated in attempts to clean up the environment. The course provides students with an introduction to ecological principles and an overview of the biological effects on humans and other organisms of toxins and other pollutants. The course focuses on two approaches to resolving environmental issues, attacking the problems through the legal process by application of regulations and by use of scientific control and clean up techniques through modern technology. This course will provide an introduction to the basic scientific principles as they relate to monitor pollution control equipment. Students will be introduced to techniques of monitoring and sampling the three regions of the environment and the importance of working toward compliance as guided by federal, state, and local regulations."	1	twoyear
50	"Industrial Hazardous Waste Generation, Treatment, and Reduction "	"In this course students will study a variety of processes used by the industry in the production of goods and the provision of services. Early legislation will be examined in its historical setting as the Federal government responded to ecological catastrophes in attempts to halt pollution and protect environmental systems. Treatment technologies will be examined as methods to reduce hazardous waste, and issues of pollution (P2) will be examined. Students will view industrial operations with visits to local manufacturing and waste reduction facilities. A minimum of four specific industries will be examined, following the process of conversion of raw materials into finished products with special attention to the generation of waste, and the Best Available Technology (BAT) for minimizing impact on air, land, and water resources."	1	twoyear
50	HVAC Heating and Control Systems	This course will enable students to identify and understand the operation of the various components found in heating and air conditioning units. Students will perform diagnostic and repair procedures on the above units and apply basic electrical concepts as they relate to HVAC industry heating and control technology.	1	twoyear
50	Industrial Technical Skills	"This course provides an introduction to basic technical skills required throughout the industrial areas. The course includes identification and use of tools and materials, tool sharpening and care, hot and cold metal work, pipefitting, electrical wiring fundamentals, basic woodwork, concrete materials and mixes, and sketching and estimating. "	1	twoyear
50	Power Equipment Electrical Systems	"This course is a study of the fundamentals of electricity with applications to current power equipment electrical systems. Theory and service procedures will include the following systems: starting, charging, lighting, and accessories. "	1	twoyear
50	Power Equipment Air Conditioning	"This is a study of power equipment air conditioning fundamentals designed to give the student knowledge and competencies in modern power equipment HVAC systems. Current EPA regulations that govern retrofit as well as the use of refrigerant installation, diagnostic, and recycling equipment are also covered. Environmental impacts by various protection procedures are emphasized. "	1	twoyear
50	Computer Studies Associate Degree	The Associate in Science Degree in Computer Science is designed for students pursuing degrees in Computer Science or Computer Engineering.	1	twoyear
50	Management Information Systems Associate Degree	"The Associate in Science Degree in Management Information Systems is designed for students pursuing degrees in Business Administration, Computer Information Systems, or Management Information Systems. Students should determine what other lower division requirements are required by the institution to which they intend to transfer."	1	twoyear
50	Computer and Networking Technology Associate Degree		1	twoyear
50	Electrical Technology Associate Degree		1	twoyear
50	Electronics Technician Associate Degree		1	twoyear
50	Industrial Electronics Technology Associate Degree		1	twoyear
50	Instrumentation and Process Control Technology		1	twoyear
50	Computer and Networking Technology Certificate		1	cert
50	Electrical Technology Certificate		1	cert
50	Electronics Technician Certificate 		1	cert
50	Industrial Electronics Technology Certificate		1	cert
50	Instrumentation and Process Control Technology Certificate 		1	cert
50	Engineering Associate Degree		1	twoyear
50	Engineering Technology Associate Degree	"Engineering Technology is that part of the technological field which requires the application of scientific and engineering knowledge and methods combined with technical skills in support of engineering activities; it lies in the occupational spectrum between the craftsman and the engineer. Engineering Technology prepares the student for junior class standing at California State University at Pomona, San Jose, San Luis Obispo, and Sacramento, and Northrop Institute of Technology in most specialized fields of engineering technology. This program leads to a Bachelor’s in Science Degree and classification as an engineering technologist."	1	twoyear
50	Environmental Technologies Associate Degree	"Environmental Technologies is a program designed to train and educate technicians for employment in business, industry, and governmental agencies to assist in compliance with federal, state, and local regulations."	1	twoyear
50	Environmental Technologies Certificate		1	cert
50	Industrial Electronics Technology Certificate		1	cert
50	Instrumentation and Process Control Technology Certificate 		1	cert
50	Engineering Associate Degree		1	twoyear
50	Engineering Technology Associate Degree		1	twoyear
50	Environmental Technologies Associate Degree	"Environmental Technologies is a program designed to train and educate technicians for employment in business, industry, and governmental agencies to assist in compliance with federal, state, and local regulations."	1	twoyear
50	Environmental Technologies Certificate		1	cert
50	HVAC Technician Associate Degree		1	twoyear
50	HVAC Technician Certificate		1	cert
50	Industrial Maintenance Technology Associate Degree		1	twoyear
50	Industrial Maintenance Technology Certificate		1	cert
50	Mechanized Agriculture Technology/Heavy Equipment Mechanics Associate Degree	"Agriculture’s dependence on power equipment has given rise to a tremendous vocational education program at Merced College in the Mechanized Agriculture field. The Mechanized Agriculture program offers courses in a wide variety of subject areas including Power Equipment Mechanics, Agricultural Construction, Diesel Engines, Hydraulics, Small Power Equipment, Machinery Management, and Power Equipment Operation. The Mechanized Agriculture facilities at the College are modern, spacious and equipped with current equipment that is used in the industry."	1	twoyear
50	Compact Power Equipment Certificate 		1	cert
51	Database Management	"Design, implementation, and maintenance of databases: Analysis of user requirements; building tables, queries, forms, reports, and other topics."	1	twoyear
51	Internet Programming in JavaScript	Development of web-based interactive programs using JavaScript.	1	twoyear
51	Microcomputer Operating Systems	"Microcomputer operating systems: Selection, use and programming with operating systems, concentrating on the personal computer."	1	twoyear
51	Intro to Computer Hardware	"Introduction to computer hardware: Maintaining and servicing computer equipment, fundamental concepts and architecture, major computer subsystems and peripheral devices, common computer problems, troubleshooting techniques, repair procedures and preventive maintenance; examines traditional, current and emerging computer technologies."	1	twoyear
51	Intro to Sustainable Environmental Systems	"Interdisciplinary study of the impact of human civilization on the earth’s major ecological systems: Issues examined in historic, contemporary, and future settings, including both Western and non-Western contexts; material presented from a theoretical point of view, with a focus on core concepts and methods related to ecology, sustainability, human population, natural resources, wastes and pollution; reflection of how human economic, political, and ethical behaviors are inextricably interwoven with the environment; and presentation of environmental career options."	1	twoyear
51	Sustainable Urban and Regional Planning	"Survey of sustainable urban and regional planning: Overview of the problems and solutions of environmentally and socially sustainable planning of cities, suburbs, and rural areas; history, philosophies and theories of urban planning; rural land use and planning strategies; and the regional approach to planning."	1	twoyear
51	Intro to Green Building and Ecological Design	"Introduction to green, regenerative, and natural building materials and renovation utilizing resource conservation: Building site selection; energy-efficient design and construction; solar, wind, and renewable energy systems; solid waste management and recycling; landscape design, and water catchment and conservation; and building rating systems."	1	twoyear
51	Sustainable Energy Options	"Survey of the many alternatives to current energy uses: Nature of the energy crisis, local and national energy policies, new job opportunities, and personal options; exploration of ways to match needs for energy with abundant supplies of renewable energy, as well as methods of conserving energy."	1	twoyear
51	Business Information Processing Associate Degree and Certificate of Achievement	"The Business Information Processing program is designed so that students acquire proficiency working with computer technology, business software applications, integration of business information processing needs with current Office software applications, Internet and web work via business correspondence; and working with a variety of documents, presentation graphics, database management, spreadsheet creation, integration of applications, and business resource and support functions. The AA degree in Business Information Processing will be awarded upon satisfactory completion of the Major course requirements and the General Education requirements. A Certificate of Achievement will be awarded upon satisfactory completion of the Major course requirements."	1	cert
51	Business Information Processing Associate Degree and Certificate of Achievement	"The Business Information Processing program is designed so that students acquire proficiency working with computer technology, business software applications, integration of business information processing needs with current Office software applications, Internet and web work via business correspondence; and working with a variety of documents, presentation graphics, database management, spreadsheet creation, integration of applications, and business resource and support functions. The AA degree in Business Information Processing will be awarded upon satisfactory completion of the Major course requirements and the General Education requirements. A Certificate of Achievement will be awarded upon satisfactory completion of the Major course requirements."	1	twoyear
51	Internet Programming Certificate of Proficiency	"The Internet Programming program prepares students for entry-level positions in Internet programming. Students completing this certificate will be able to develop interactive web sites, either as front-end site solutions or back-end data gathering and manipulation; or will develop stand-alone, custom applications with Internet functionality. A Certificate of Proficiency will be awarded upon satisfactory completion of the courses specified below. The Certificate of Proficiency is not indicated on the student’s transcript."	1	cert
51	PC Applications Help Desk Specialist Certificate of Proficiency	"The PC Applications Help Desk Specialist program prepares students for entry-level positions in computer help-desk positions. Students completing this certificate will be able to assist clients or other employees in solving user problems with computer hardware, operating system, and software applications. A Certificate of Proficiency will be awarded upon satisfactory completion of the courses specified below. The Certificate of Proficiency is not indicated on the student’s transcript."	1	cert
51	Environmental Management Fundamentals Certificate of Proficiency 	"The Environmental Management Fundamentals certificate program offers students an introduction to the basic concepts of environmental stewardship, provides preparation for specialized coursework, and establishes minimum qualifications for entry-level employment in related public and private agencies. A Certificate of Proficiency will be awarded upon satisfactory completion of the courses specified below. The Certificate of Proficiency is not indicated on the student’s transcript."	1	cert
51	Greening the Urban Environment Certificate of Proficiency	"The Environmental Management Fundamentals certificate program offers students an introduction to the basic concepts of environmental stewardship, provides preparation for specialized coursework, and establishes minimum qualifications for entry-level employment in related public and private agencies. A Certificate of Proficiency will be awarded upon satisfactory completion of the courses specified below. The Certificate of Proficiency is not indicated on the student’s transcript."	1	cert
52	Software Development with Java	"This course is an introduction to the concepts and methods of computer programming with an emphasis on OOP, (Object-Oriented Programming). Java programming language concepts include introduction to objects and classes, designing classes, data types, iterations, loops, testing and debugging techniques. This course also includes applets, GUI (graphical user interface), arrays lists, arrays, streams and exception handling. This course may be offered via distance learning."	1	twoyear
52	Web Dev with PHP and MySQL	"Learn to create dynamic web applications! This course includes web page set up using HTML and Javascript, basic PHP programming elements, MySQL database basics and how to create a database driven web application using PHP and MySQL. This course is cross listed as CA 086."	1	twoyear
52	Intro to Networking	"This course is an introduction to networking using the latest operating systems, security techniques, and wireless standards, plus step-by-step instructions for installing and configuring network devices. It also introduces the fundamental building blocks that form a modern network, such as protocols, topologies, hardware, and network operating systems. Further, it provides in-depth coverage of the most important concepts in networking, such as TCP/IP, Ethernet, wireless transmission and security."	1	twoyear
52	Cisco Networking Fundamentals	"This course is the first of four courses leading to the Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) designation. This course introduces the architecture, structure, functions, components, and models of the Internet and other computer networks. It uses the OSI and TCP layered models to examine the nature and roles of protocols and services at the application, network, data link, and physical layers. The principles and structure of IP addressing and the fundamentals of Ethernet concepts, media, and operations are introduced to provide a foundation for the curriculum. Labs use a “model Internet” to allow students to analyze real data without affecting production networks. Packet Tracer (PT) activities help students analyze protocol and network operation and build small networks in a simulated environment. At the end of the course, students build simple LAN topologies by applying basic principles of cabling, performing basic configurations of network devices, including routers and switches, and implementing IP addressing schemes."	1	twoyear
52	LAN Switching and Wireless	"This course is the third of four courses leading to the CCNA designation. This course provides a comprehensive, theoretical, and practical approach to learning the technologies and protocols needed to design and implement a converged switched network. Students learn about the hierarchical network design model and how to select devices for each layer. Students learn how to configure a switch for basic functionality and how to implement Virtual LANs, VTP, and Inter-VLAN routing in a converged network. The different implementations of Spanning Tree Protocol in a converged network are presented, and students develop the knowledge and skills necessary to implement a WLAN in a small-to-medium network. This course may be offered via distance learning."	1	twoyear
52	Implementing Cisco IP Routing	"This course teaches students how to implement, monitor, and maintain routing services in an enterprise network. Students will learn how to plan, configure, and verify the implementation of complex enterprise LAN and WAN routing solutions, using a range of routing protocols in IPv4 and IPv6 environments. The course also covers the configuration of secure routing solutions to support branch offices and mobile workers. Comprehensive labs emphasize hands-on learning and practice to reinforce configuration skills. This course may be offered via distance learning."	1	twoyear
52	Desktop Operating Systems	"This is the first of a two-course program designed to prepare students for the A+ certification exam. The course provides a complete, step-by-step approach to learning the fundamentals of supporting and troubleshooting computer software. This course uses CompTIA A+ training materials to equip the student with the knowledge and skills necessary to become proficient in core computer principles for the software component. This course is beneficial for any postal maintenance or information systems personnel involved with the installation, upgrade, and troubleshooting of microcomputer (PC) software. This course may be offered via distance learning."	1	twoyear
52	Engineering Graphics and Design	"This course develops graphical visualization and design skills by applying graphics based engineering methods. The course also teaches engineering design by applying the conceptual design process and integrating graphics into design projects. Graphics assignments develop sketching, manual drafting, and computer aided drafting (CAD) skills. This course is primarily for engineering transfer students."	1	twoyear
52	Computer Information Systems Associate Degree	The Computer Information Systems Associate of Science program prepares the student for jobs in business and government as information technology professionals.	1	twoyear
52	Comp Network Technology Associate Degree	"This program prepares students to design, administer, maintain, and troubleshoot networks of different sizes. Skills gained include specification preparation, network management, network design, equipment and system sales, and software development. Laboratory courses provide students with hands-on experience to demonstrate the principles of enterprise networking. Courses provide learning opportunities for students new to the field, as well as those who are experienced professionals. Specialized courses are also among the optional electives in this program, available to help students prepare for Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA), Cisco Certified Network Professional (CCNP), Microsoft Certified Information Technology Professional (MCITP), Server Administrator and Enterprise Administrator certification exams."	1	twoyear
52	Cisco Certified Network Associate Certificate	"The Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) program is designed to provide the knowledge and skills needed to install, operate and troubleshoot a small to medium size enterprise branch network, which includes connecting to multiple WANs, basic security measures, and wireless extension of the network."	1	cert
52	Cisco Certificated Network Professional Certificate	"The CCNP Certificate equips students with the knowledge and skills needed to plan, implement, secure, maintain, and troubleshoot converged enterprise networks. The CCNP curriculum is designed to reflect the job skills and responsibilities that are associated with professional-level job roles such as network engineer, systems engineer, network support engineer, network administrator, network consultant, and system integrator. The CCNP certificate consists of three courses: CCNP Route: Implementing IP Routing, CCNP Switch: Implementing IP Switching, and CCNP Tshoot: Maintaining and Troubleshooting IP Networks."	1	cert
52	Certified Network Engineer Certificate 	"The Certified Novell Engineer (CNE) track is designed to fully prepare students to the install, configure, and design Novell networks. The track focuses on Novell products, but also includes support courses that are not vendor specific and better prepares the student to actually work in the field. Completion of the track prepares students to take and pass the Novell Certification exams."	1	cert
52	Engineering Associate Degree	"Engineering is the application of the theories and principles of science and math to solve practical technical problems. Engineers develop useful applications that will benefit humankind, such as inventing machines or designing a process to mass-produce a product. In addition to the design and development of new products and processes, engineers also work in testing, production, maintenance, marketing, and sales. Engineers are technical problem-solvers."	1	cert
53	Computer Science 	"This program is a comprehensive exposure to programming languages, algorithms and problem solving in preparation for upper division computer science courses. The Computer Science degree includes substantial course work in mathematics as is required by most university computer science programs."	1	twoyear
53	Industrial Electronics 	"The Electronics Technology Program prepares students to enter industry as Electronics Technicians or to transfer to a four-year university program.  An Industrial Electronics study option and a Computer Electronics study option are available.  Students receive theoretical and laboratory instruction in electrical/electronic principles, analog and digital devices, electrical/electronic systems, computer hardware, industrial equipment and control systems.  "	1	cert
53	Industrial Electronics 	"The Electronics Technology Program prepares students to enter industry as Electronics Technicians or to transfer to a four-year university program.  An Industrial Electronics study option and a Computer Electronics study option are available.  Students receive theoretical and laboratory instruction in electrical/electronic principles, analog and digital devices, electrical/electronic systems, computer hardware, industrial equipment and control systems.  "	1	twoyear
53	Engineering / Engineering Technology 	"The Engineering and Engineering Technology programs prepare students to transfer to four-year college and university programs.  Most universities have several common undergraduate core classes regardless of the student’s eventual area of specialization (i.e. civil, mechanical, electrical/electronic, aeronautical, agricultural, chemical, industrial, etc.)"	1	twoyear
53	Intro to Comp Hardware/A+ Prep	This course covers maintenance and installation of computer hard­ware and basic electronics to understand digital circuits. The class covers most of the A+ certification material. May be taken four times based on a new version of software.	1	twoyear
54	Networking Fundamentals	"This course introduces networking concepts and builds basic networking skills. Students learn layered models (TCP/IP and OSI), Ethernet networking, routing, IP addressing, and cabling. This Cisco Academy course is the first of a four-part sequence to prepare for CCNA certification. Portions of instruction may be offered online. May be taken four times for recertification."	1	twoyear
54	Network Security Fundamentals	"This course covers the fundamentals of security, using simulators to give hands-on experience with servers, routers and other security devices. Students learn about different types of attacks, security policy, encryption, access control, PKI, authentication, and cryptography. This course covers material necessary to prepare for the CompTIA Security+ certification. May be taken four times for recertification. Also offered online."	1	twoyear
54	Adv. Routing & Switching Implementations	"This course explores advanced topics in routing and switching at the Cisco Certified Network Professional (CCNP) level. The student will learn to configure the multi-cast routing, multi-area OSPF, EIGRP and BGP routing protocols as well as how to optimize routing updates through redistribution, route filtering and route maps. The course introduces advanced switching concepts such as Ether channel and Multi-layer Switching. May be taken four times for recertification. Offered online."	1	twoyear
54	Comp. Science Advanced Programming	"Students gain further experience in software design by developing and using common data structures in Java. Coverage includes arrays, strings, linked lists, stacks, queues, trees, sorting, searching and hashing, and a significant project."	1	twoyear
54	Database Processing	"This introductory course to database management and design provides a solid, modern foundation in the fundamentals of database processing. Students are introduced to objects and SQL databases including a survey of MS Access, Oracle, and SQL Server. Database publishing and Internet standards are introduced with XML Schema and coverage of ODBC, OLE DB, ADO, ASP, and other technology."	1	twoyear
54	Web Publishing Using MS FrontPage	"This course provides students a hands-on introduction to basic aspects of World Wide Web publishing using Microsoft FrontPage. With a self- paced syllabus, material is presented in a visual format to describe essential skills to plan, create, modify and structure Web pages and sites. May be taken four times based on a new version of software."	1	twoyear
54	Engineering Circuits	"This course introduces DC and sinusoidal circuit analysis as applied to resistive, capacitive, and inductive circuits, op-amps, transformers and balanced three-phase circuits. Topics include Thevenin and Norton circuit theorems, superposition, complex phasors and power, frequency response, resonance, and associated calculations."	1	twoyear
54	Robotics	"This is a hands-on introduction to modern robotics using the industry standard BASIC Stamp microcontroller. Topics include construction, movement, object detection/avoidance, programming PBASIC, subsumptive programming and emergent behavior. Students may purchase their own robotics kit or use school-provided kits. No prior electronics experience needed."	1	twoyear
54	Configure & Secure your Home Network	This course covers the basics of configuring and securing file and printer sharing in a wired and/or wireless home network as well as how to establish Internet connectivity through a DSL or cable router.	1	twoyear
54	Adv. Publishing on the World Wide Web	"This course builds on basic client-side Web publishing skills using Web design software and coding of HTML, XHTML, XML and scripting. Effi­cient and effective Web site design is emphasized using class projects. Dynamic HTML is studied using scripting and Cascading Style Sheets, data binding, and Java applet objects. Visual presentation is explored using image creation software while Macromedia Flash is introduced. May be taken four times based on a new version of software."	1	twoyear
54	Computer Networking Certificate 	Upon successful completion students will be able to: Implement and configure Cisco routers to perform local and wide area network routing using various routing protocols; implement and configure Cisco switches to perform local area network switching; implement and configure Microsoft client and server operating systems to obtain and provide network services; implement and configure security on local and wide area networks; implement and configure UNIX systems to obtain and provide network services.	1	cert
54	Computer Networking Associate Degree		1	twoyear
54	Computer Science & Info Systems Associate Degree	"This program prepares students intending to transfer into a Computer Sci­ence, Computer Information Systems or related baccalaureate program by providing foundational training in core courses across the discipline."	1	twoyear
54	Computer Software Applications Certificate and Associate Degree with two focuses	"Successful completion will allow students to: Enter information accurately using appropriate keyboarding techniques and software that allows for the storage, retrieval, and editing of material; formulate questions and use a variety of sources and tools to access, capture, and store information; describe the impact of information technology tools on society; use a variety of software to access, capture, and store information from the Internet; use basic information technology tools competently; design a multimedia solution to a problem using a variety of tools and resources for creating and manipulating documents; create and publish a World Wide Web document; solve problems using information technology tools and resources."	1	cert
54	Computer Software Applications Certificate and Associate Degree with two focuses	"Successful completion will allow students to: Enter information accurately using appropriate keyboarding techniques and software that allows for the storage, retrieval, and editing of material; formulate questions and use a variety of sources and tools to access, capture, and store information; describe the impact of information technology tools on society; use a variety of software to access, capture, and store information from the Internet; use basic information technology tools competently; design a multimedia solution to a problem using a variety of tools and resources for creating and manipulating documents; create and publish a World Wide Web document; solve problems using information technology tools and resources."	1	twoyear
54	Engineering Associate Degree		1	twoyear
54	Essential Computer Skills Certificate of Training		1	cert
54	Web Designer Certificate of Training		1	cert
55	Networking Fundamentals	"This course provides a comprehensive overview of the fundamental concepts of computer networking. It is designed to make the student aware of the various elements, protocols and software within the networking environment."	1	twoyear
55	Network Administration	"This course provides students with the knowledge and skills necessary to perform post-installation and day-to-day network administrative tasks in single-domain and multipledomain networks on Microsoft® Windows NT ®, Microsoft® Windows 2000 ®, and Microsoft® Windows XP ®."	1	twoyear
55	Network Technical Support	"This course provides students with the knowledge and skills necessary to install, configure, customize, and troubleshoot Microsoft® Windows NT ®, Microsoft® Windows 2000 ®, and Microsoft® Windows XP ® in a single-domain network. In addition, students learn how to integrate Microsoft® Windows networks with other platforms such as Novell NetWare and UNIX networks."	1	twoyear
55	Network and Comp Security	"This course provides students with the knowledge and skills necessary to install, configure, customize, and troubleshoot Microsoft® Windows NT ®, Microsoft® Windows 2000 ®, and Microsoft® Windows XP ® in a single-domain network. In addition, students learn how to integrate Microsoft® Windows networks with other platforms such as Novell NetWare and UNIX networks."	1	twoyear
55	Database	"Provides an introduction and hands-on training in the use of microcomputer database software. The basic concepts of Structure as well as specific commands and functional capabilities will be covered. Files will be created, data manipulated, output formatted, and reports produced. Students will gain experience in modular programming techniques and constructing program loops. Specific applications will include batch mode, interactively finding and editing data, and simultaneously accessing two databases to isolate exception conditions or update files."	1	twoyear
55	"Energy, the Environment & Sustainability "	"This course is a study of human civilizations and their impact on global environmental systems. Environmental world views (ethics), past and present, of the various cultural, ethnic, gender and socioeconomic groups will be explored."	1	twoyear
55	Geographic Info Systems & Science	"This second course in Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and Science further enhances the student’s studies by adding extensions to their knowledge of computer-based techniques for storage, retrieval, analysis, and representation of spatially referenced data. It emphasizes the applications of GIS technology to research problems such as natural hazard mapping, surface runoff, environmental impact assessments, business trends, and others. Students are required to develop system models in their chosen field area."	1	twoyear
55	Intro to Satellite Based (GPS) Data Collection Methods	"This course will describe principles and applications of control surveys, coordinate systems, and global positioning systems including concepts and practice of navigation, location, data collection, processing and adjustment."	1	twoyear
55	Computer Networking Technology Certificate		1	cert
55	Microcomputer Applications Specialist Certificate		1	cert
55	Environmental Science Certificate	This certificate is designed to interest students in the field of Environmental Sciences. It is intended to give introductory science students the necessary skills and background to enter the environmental engineering field at the technician level. The certificate is also designed to give the introductory science or non-science major an understanding of the multi-disciplinary nature of the field and allow the student to transfer to four year colleges for further study.	1	cert
55	Geographic Info Systems Certificate		1	cert
56	Comp Applications in Biotechnology	"This course introduces basic computer skills necessary to perform tasks required in an introductory biotechnology course. This course covers key concepts in Excel, PowerPoint, and Access."	1	twoyear
56	Network Operating Systems	"This course provides an in-depth study of Network Operating Systems. The web-based curriculum, sponsored by Hewlett-Packard Company, is an intensive introduction to multi-tasking network operating systems. Characteristics of the Linux, Windows 2000, NT, and XP network operating systems will be discussed. Students will explore a variety of topics including installation procedures, security issues, back up procedures, and remote access. This course provides the foundation for student preparing to take the CompTIA A+ certification exam."	1	twoyear
56	Data Communications	"This course is an introduction to data communications. It will include Internet, e-mail, modems, communication protocol, local area networks, wide area networks, network design, and management."	1	twoyear
56	Network Fundamentals	"This course introduces the architecture, structure, functions, components, and models of the Internet and other computer networks. It uses the OSI and TCP layered models to examine the nature and roles of protocols and services at the application, network, data link, and physical layers. The principles and structure of IP addressing and the fundamentals of Ethernet concepts, media, and operations are introduced to provide a foundation for the curriculum. At the end of the course, students build simple LAN topologies by applying basic principles of cabling; performing basic configurations of network devices, including routers and switches; and implementing IP addressing schemes. This course is preparation for the Cisco Certified Networking Associate (CCNA) certification."	1	twoyear
56	Implementing Cisco Secure WANs CCNP II	"This is the second of four courses of the advanced study of Cisco Networking Academy. Students will gain classroom and laboratory experience in current and emerging networking technology that will prepare them for the Cisco Certified Networking Professional (CCNP) exam: 642-825 Implementing Cisco Secure WANS (ICSW). Instruction includes DSL, PPPoE, PPPoA, MPLS, Frame Relay, VPN, how to build a remote access network to interconnect central sites to branch offices and home office/telecommuters, and to control access to the central site, as well as maximize bandwidth utilization over the remote links."	1	twoyear
56	Optimizing Converged Networks	"This is the last of four courses of the advanced study of Cisco Networking Academy. This course is designed to provide students with classroom and laboratory experience optimizing converged networks that will prepare them for the Cisco Certified Networking Professional (CCNP) exam: 642-845 Cisco Optimizing Converged Cisco Networks). Instruction includes troubleshooting methodology, network documentation, and debug."	1	twoyear
56	PC Hardware and Software	This course includes hardware and software topics relevant to personal computer (PC) troubleshooting. Emphasis is placed on developing essential troubleshooting and repair skills and preparation for the A+ certification exam.	1	twoyear
56	Linux Networking	"This course introduces the functions and features of the Linux operating system in Network. The course describes the major client and server services that are found in most networked computer systems. Students will implement in the computer lab such services as telnet, ftp, nfs, nis, web, mail, dns, samba, and dhcp. This course is preparation for Sair Linux and GNU certification."	1	twoyear
56	Wireless Networks	"This introductory course to wireless communication and LANs focuses on the design, planning, implementation, operation and troubleshooting of Wireless LANs. It covers a comprehensive overview of technologies, security, and design best practices with particular emphasis on hands on skills."	1	twoyear
56	Network Security	"This course provides an in-depth study of Network Security fundamentals and provides a comprehensive overview of network security. The class is broken down into five sections: General Security Concepts, Communication Security, Infrastructure Security, Cryptography, and Operational/ Organizational Security. This course provides the foundation for students preparing to take the CompTIA Security+certification exam."	1	twoyear
56	Intro to Engineering	"This course explores the field of engineering and its different branches. It provides hands-on design projects including experimentation, team work, ethics, and the application of basic scientific principles to practical situations."	1	twoyear
56	Electric Circuit Analysis	"This course is a study of DC and AC linear circuits and transient and steady state analysis. Experimental techniques, instrumentation, and circuit simulation will be covered in the lab."	1	twoyear
56	Programming with Data Structures	"This course involves the study and implementation of data structure programming techniques. The emphasis is on the data structures of stacks, queues, lists, trees and graphs; the use of recursion; and the application of these tools primarily in searching and sorting. Students will implement these concepts by writing numerous programs in an object-oriented language such as C++."	1	twoyear
56	Data Communications	"This course is an introduction to data communications. It will include Internet, e-mail, modems, communication protocol, local area networks, wide area networks, network design, and management."	1	twoyear
56	Linux Security 	Students with Linux experience will gain knowledge and skills in implementing Linux security. This course is preparation for Sair Linux and GNU certification.	1	twoyear
56	Engineering Mechanics – Statics	"This course is a study of force systems and equilibrium in two and three dimensional structures, distributed forces, friction, and virtual work."	1	twoyear
56	Linux System Administration	"This course introduces the fundamental knowledge and skills needed to install, manage, and maintain a Linux computer system. Advanced system management tasks like file system management, patching, rebuilding the kernal, configuring networking interfaces, and system monitoring are performed in the computer lab. Shell programming and the various shells are introduced, and students will learn to write shell script programs to perform various system tasks. This course is preparation for Sair Linux and GNU certification."	1	twoyear
56	Network Technician Training	"This course prepares students for the knowledge and skills required to successfully install, operate, and troubleshoot a small branch office network. The course includes topics on networking fundamentals; connecting to a WAN; basic security and wireless concepts; routing and switching fundamentals; the TCP/IP and OSI models; IP addressing; WAN technologies; operating and configuring IOS devices; configuring RIPv2, static and default routing; implementing NAT and DHCP; and configuring simple networks."	1	twoyear
56	Routing Protocols and Concepts	"This course describes the architecture, components, and operation of routers, and explains the principles of routing and routing protocols. Students analyze, configure, verify, and troubleshoot the primary routing protocols RIPv1, RIPv2, EIGRP, and OSPF. By the end of this course, students will be able to recognize and correct common routing issues and problems. This course is preparation for the Cisco Certified Networking Associate (CCNA) certification."	1	twoyear
56	LAN Switching and Wireless	"This course focuses on the technologies and protocols needed to design and implement a converged switched network. Students will learn how to configure a switch for basic functionality and implement virtual LANs, VTP, and Inter-VLAN routing in a converged network. The different implementations of Spanning Tree Protocol in a converged network are presented and students will develop the knowledge and skills necessary to implement a WLAN (wireless LAN) in a small-tomedium network. This course is preparation for the Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) certification."	1	twoyear
56	Computing Concepts in Biotechnology	"This course introduces the basic computing concepts, the most commonly used computer algorithms, and programming languages in biotechnology."	1	twoyear
56	Database Fundamentals I: Database Architecture and Administration	"In this course students learn to startup and shutdown a database, create a database, manage file and database storage, and manage users and their privileges. In addition, students learn to organize the database and to move data into and between databases. Hands-on practices help to reinforce key concepts and students have an opportunity to troubleshoot real life issues when they are given examples of typical problems encountered when operating an Oracle database."	1	twoyear
56	Database Fundamentals II: Database Backup and Recovery	"This course addresses backup and recovery techniques and examines various backup, failure, restore, and recovery scenarios for current versions of Oracle databases. Participants utilize multiple strategies and Oracle tools such as Recovery Manager to perform backups and restore and recovery operations. Participants have the opportunity to apply some of the more advanced techniques within a workshop environment. In addition to lecture and hands-on learning, this class addresses answers to frequently asked questions concerning backup and recovery."	1	twoyear
56	Microsoft Client Operating Systems	"This course provides students with the knowledge and skills necessary to set up and support the Windows Client Operating System and prepare for the corresponding Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP), a core requirement on the MCSA and MCSE track. Students will get practical experience installing, administering, and troubleshooting this next-generation desktop environment."	1	twoyear
56	Electronics for Technology	"This class is an introduction to electricity and electronic devices. Students will learn the basic theory of electricity and apply that knowledge to build, test, and troubleshoot electrical circuits. In the lab, students will learn to operate the test and measurement instrumentation necessary to support construction of electrical circuits."	1	twoyear
56	Linux Installation and Configuration	"This course introduces the functions and features of the Linux operating system including the file system, system services, processes, background processing, scheduling, and security. The course supplies students with the information they need to install and configure Linux on a personal computer. Students will get practical experience in installing, administering, and troubleshooting Linux systems. This course is preparation for Sair Linux and GNU certification."	1	twoyear
56	Windows Network Infrastructure Administration	"This course prepares students as product support professionals who will be responsible for installing, configuring, managing, and supporting a network infrastructure that uses the Microsoft Windows Server products and prepare for the corresponding Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) Exam, a core requirement on the MCSE track and elective credit on the MCSA track."	1	twoyear
56	Solar Photovoltaic Design and Installation 	"Introduction of solar photovoltaic system requirements, design and configurations, installation techniques, and their application in residential and commercial construction. Entry-level Certification Exam from NABCEP is an option."	1	twoyear
56	Energy: Development and Sustainability	"This course is an exploration of the conversion and use of energy, on the nature of energy and energy systems, how different cultures use and view energy, and the use of energy in contemporary societies. This course will explain the origin and dimensions of the global energy problem and identify how energy issues and policies affect environmental quality, economic growth, and global politics. The course will focus on how energy conservation, energy efficiency, and renewable energy sources can be incorporated to create a sustainable society."	1	twoyear
56	Wind Energy: Design and Development 	"This course explores the role of wind as an energy source, as well as its social, economic, and political implications on the global energy supply. Surveys in historical wind energy application will be conducted, its reliability assessed, and environmental implications analyzed. Also studied will be wind energy applications and basic operating principles. The status of the industry’s future and renewable energy as a whole will be analyzed."	1	twoyear
56	Intro to Sustainable Agriculture 	This course examines how changes in the way we eat and farm impact the environment and how traditional and evolving methods of farming can reduce our environmental impact and feed our populations sustainably.	1	twoyear
56	Urbanization: Towards Green Communities	"This course presents the sociological, economical, and sustainable perspective in the investigation and understanding of urban phenomena. Included are a wide range of topics that tap the spectrum of urban growth and development in both the developed and developing world."	1	twoyear
56	Advanced .NET Programming	This is an advanced course for .NET application design and development. Three major areas covered are Graphical User Interface for Windows applications; ADO.NET and SQL for access to databases; and XML and ASP.NET for Web forms and services. The .NET Framework will be used in class for program development.	1	twoyear
56	Web Site Design	"Students will learn design principles to create web sites of their choice using the latest software applications. Students will also learn to analyze web sites created in a wide range of fields and various cultures. Topics include CSS, typography, color, copyright issues, accessibility, contracts, digital imaging optimization, and techniques to display sound, animation and video."	1	twoyear
56	XHTML	"Students will use XHTML to create multimedia Web pages using hypertext links, tables, frames, forms, cascading style sheets (CSS), JavaScript, and JavaScript objects and events. Other topics include Dynamic Hypertext Markup Language (DHTML) techniques and working with eXtensible Markup Language (XML) and eXtensible Stylesheet Language (XSL)."	1	twoyear
56	XML 	"This course is designed to teach students the technologies of XML (the eXtensible Mark-up Language), XSL (eXtensible Style Language), and DSSSL (Document Style Symantics and Specification Language)."	1	twoyear
56	Intro to Robotics and Automated Systems	"Students who take this class will understand how scientific innovation can affect their lives either directly or indirectly. The class will teach students the principles of scientific methodology as it is applied to solving problems. The application of this scientific method will be used to navigate an abundance of technical information – to obtain the information, to understand the information, and to determine how to apply it. This course describes the functional hardware and software components of automated systems. The student will experience how scientific principles are applied by building and programming robots. The emphasis is for students to learn science by actually doing science."	1	twoyear
56	Info Security	This course provides an in-depth study of Information Security fundamentals and provides a comprehensive overview of the field of Information Security. Students will be presented with both the managerial and technical aspects of information security and will cover the knowledge and skills area of the Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) certification.	1	twoyear
56	Biotechnology Associate Degree 	The Associate in Science in Biotechnology is a program designed to train students in the methods and techniques used in biotechnology. Courses in this program train students in standard biotechnology laboratory techniques and record keeping. The program prepares students for entry-level positions in biomanufacturing and pharmomanufacturing positions.	1	twoyear
56	Biotechnology – Bio-ManufacturingCertificate	Science in Biotechnology is a program designed to train students in the methods and techniques used in biotechnology. Courses in this program train students in standard biotechnology laboratory techniques and record keeping. The program prepares students for entry-level positions in biomanufacturing and pharmomanufacturing positions.	1	cert
56	"Cisco Certified Network Professional (Network+, CCNA, CCNP) "		1	twoyear
56	"Cisco Certified Network Professional (Network+, CCNA, CCNP) "		1	cert
56	Computer Engineering  Associate Degree		1	twoyear
56	Computer Science Associate Degree	"The Associate in Science in Computer Science offered by Ohlone College is designed to prepare students for pursuing studies at the university level in computer science and engineering. The core courses in Computer Science, Mathematics, and Physics required for this associate degree will fulfill the lower division major requirements at many universities. This program will enable students to develop a strong foundation in the computer and engineering sciences as well as a thorough training in applying their mathematical skills. In addition, students completing this program will acquire valuable cognitive skills (logic and common sense, reasoning and problem-solving skills) and practical laboratory skills. The theoretical and practical knowledge acquired through this program will enhance students’ success with obtaining entry-level jobs that require two years of college-level computer science and math."	1	twoyear
56	Computer Studies Certificate and Associate Degree	This degree has 2 options: Computer Programming (Internet/Web Programming) and Computer Programming (Software Development).	1	twoyear
56	Computer Studies Certificate and Associate Degree	This degree has 2 options: Computer Programming (Internet/Web Programming) and Computer Programming (Software Development).	1	cert
56	Desktop Support Technician 	"PC Technicians install, fix, repair, and upgrade personal computers. In contrast to Technical Support Specialists, who often support computer software applications, PC Technicians tend to focus on computer hardware. Software is used, but typically only at the operating system level in order to diagnose problems or correctly configure a system."	1	twoyear
56	Desktop Support Technician 	"PC Technicians install, fix, repair, and upgrade personal computers. In contrast to Technical Support Specialists, who often support computer software applications, PC Technicians tend to focus on computer hardware. Software is used, but typically only at the operating system level in order to diagnose problems or correctly configure a system."	1	cert
56	Engineering Associate Degree	"The Associate in Science in Engineering offered by Ohlone College is designed to prepare students for studying engineering at most universities. The core courses required in the Associate in Science in Engineering will fulfill the lower division requirements for most campuses of the UC and CSU systems. This program will enable students to develop a strong foundation in engineering, physics, and mathematics. Furthermore, the theoretical knowledge and laboratory skills acquired by students in this program will also enhance their success with obtaining entry-level jobs that require two years of college-level science and math."	1	twoyear
56	"Microsoft Systems Engineer (Network+, MCP, MCSE) "	"For network professionals, Microsoft offers the Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE) credential. MCSE’s are qualified to effectively plan, implement, maintain, and support information systems in a wide range of computing environments using the Microsoft Windows Server Products and the Microsoft BackOffice®. Candidates for this degree option must have strong PC skills prior to enrolling in the program."	1	twoyear
56	"Microsoft Systems Engineer (Network+, MCP, MCSE) "	"For network professionals, Microsoft offers the Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE) credential. MCSE’s are qualified to effectively plan, implement, maintain, and support information systems in a wide range of computing environments using the Microsoft Windows Server Products and the Microsoft BackOffice®. Candidates for this degree option must have strong PC skills prior to enrolling in the program."	1	cert
56	"Network Administrator (Network+, MCP or UNIX, CCNA) "	"Network Administrators manage all of the day-to-day aspects of a computer network. In addition to configuring networks they are responsible for making the network operational 24 hours a day. Tasks performed include adding/deleting users, backing up the server, loading new software applications, and maintaining security. Network Admininstrators are responsible for fixing an application or service, such as e-mail or printer access, when it is not working properly. Candidates for this degree option must have strong PC skills prior to enrolling in the program."	1	twoyear
56	"Network Administrator (Network+, MCP or UNIX, CCNA) "	"Network Administrators manage all of the day-to-day aspects of a computer network. In addition to configuring networks they are responsible for making the network operational 24 hours a day. Tasks performed include adding/deleting users, backing up the server, loading new software applications, and maintaining security. Network Admininstrators are responsible for fixing an application or service, such as e-mail or printer access, when it is not working properly. Candidates for this degree option must have strong PC skills prior to enrolling in the program."	1	cert
56	"Technical Support Specialist (A+, Network+, MCP) "	"A Technical Support Specialist offers frontline support to end-users, assisting them in getting the most from their computer product. The specialist is responsible for leading the end-users through various procedures helping them fix their problems; this support could be conducted over the telephone, one-on-one, or in a small group training session."	1	twoyear
56	"Technical Support Specialist (A+, Network+, MCP) "	"A Technical Support Specialist offers frontline support to end-users, assisting them in getting the most from their computer product. The specialist is responsible for leading the end-users through various procedures helping them fix their problems; this support could be conducted over the telephone, one-on-one, or in a small group training session."	1	cert
56	UNIX/LINUX Systems Administrator Certificate and Associate Degree 	"Students who complete this program learn the skills and the general knowledge of UNIX/Linux Systems Administration, including an understanding of theory and the development of a solid foundation of system administration skills. Graduates are qualified for entry-level positions in UNIX/Linux Systems Administration."	1	twoyear
56	UNIX/LINUX Systems Administrator Certificate and Associate Degree 	"Students who complete this program learn the skills and the general knowledge of UNIX/Linux Systems Administration, including an understanding of theory and the development of a solid foundation of system administration skills. Graduates are qualified for entry-level positions in UNIX/Linux Systems Administration."	1	cert
56	Cisco Certified Network Associate Certificate of Accomplishment	"Upon completion of the Cisco Certified Network Associate Certificate of Accomplishment students will have gained the expertise they need to pass the test required to achieve Cisco Certified Networking Associate (CCNA) status. CCNA Certification skills include the ability to install, configure, and operate simple-routed LAN, routed WAN, and switched LAN networks."	1	cert
56	Computer and Information Literacy		1	cert
56	Computer Applications in Biotechnology Certificate of Accomplishment	"The field of computer applications in biotechnology is a complex hybrid of two distinct scientific disciplines – computer technology and bioscience. This certificate is designed to provide an understanding of bioinformatics and other computer related subjects to students with some computer and/or life science background. This program is useful for students who desire to explore this new information science in which computers help to simulate, visualize, and analyze genetic and biological information. It also provides an introduction to the fundamental scientific and computational concepts, methods, and tools central to the growing field of computer applications in biotechnology."	1	cert
56	Computer Programming Certificate of Accomplishment	"Upon completion of the Computer Programming Certificate program students will be capable of writing high-level language programs in procedural, object-oriented, and event-driven languages."	1	cert
56	Database Administration Certificate 	"Database Administration certification combines training, experience, and testing to ensure that students have a strong foundation and expertise in the industry’s most advanced database management system."	1	cert
56	Data Communications and Web Programming Certificate of Accomplishment		1	cert
56	Desktop Support Technician Certificate of Accomplishment	"This certificate will assist students in offering frontline or helpdesk support to end-users, assist computer users in getting the most from their computer products, and lead them through various procedures, helping them to fix problems. This support is conducted over the telephone, one-on-one, or in a small group training session."	1	cert
56	Engineering Certificate of Accomplishment	This certificate demonstrates that students have completed classes that serve as a beginning foundation for a career in engineering. These courses emphasize the application of scientific and mathematical principles to solving practical problems. 	1	cert
56	Engineering/Manufacturing Technician	"This certificate prepares students for a career as a technician in a variety of manufacturing and technical capacities, including electronics assembly, QA/QC, construction, medical devices, energy/environmental industry (i.e., solar energy), semi conductor, computer manufacturing, computer networking, general manufacturing, biotechnology automation, engineering consulting, telecommunications, etc. "	1	cert
56	Linux+ Certificate of Accomplishment	"Preparation for the current CompTIA Linux+ credential. Linux+ certified individuals can explain fundamental management of Linux systems from the command line, demonstrate knowledge of user administration, understand file permissions, software configurations, and management of Linux-based clients, server systems and security."	1	cert
56	Linux/Unix Administration Certificate of Accomplishment	This program series targets both beginning and intermediate Linux/UNIX users who want to acquire advanced system administration skills and to back up those skills with a Certificate of Accomplishment.	1	cert
56	Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer Certificate of Accomplishment	"For network professionals Microsoft offers the Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE) credential. MCSEs are qualified to effectively plan, implement, maintain, and support information systems in a wide range of computing environments using the Microsoft Windows 2008 Server and the Microsoft Back Office integrated family of server products. "	1	cert
56	Network Technician Certificate of Accomplishment	"Network Technicians assist in the installation, configuration, testing, maintenance, and troubleshooting of LANs and/or WANs. They are responsible for routine tasks such as adding new accounts, assigning passwords, and keeping a variety of logs. They should have knowledge of networking fundamentals; connecting to a WAN; basic security and wireless concepts; routing and switching fundamentals; the TCP/IP and OSI models; IP addressing; WAN technologies; operating and configuring IOS devices; configuring RIPv2, static and default routing; implementing NAT and DHCP; and configuring simple networks."	1	cert
56	Renewable Energy and Sustainable Development Certificate of Accomplishment	"Students completing this program will examine strategies to efficiently and cleanly utilize our planet’s natural resources to produce energy, food, and urban habitats. This program focuses on living and growing sustainably without degrading the environment so that future generations of all species may thrive. This Certificate of Accomplishment signifies that students have completed coursework in biological, human, socioeconomic, and political principles as they relate to and are influenced by energy. The student will acquire knowledge and skills in the design and operation of energy systems, energy policy, with an emphasis on non-renewable and renewable energy systems. These skills may assist or enhance their work in areas such as energy management, the design of small to medium size energy systems, sustainable development and renewable energy research. The courses include an emphasis on a scientific understanding of the environment, social and economic concepts, and an awareness of the behaviors that protect or damage the earth and its resources. On completion of this certificate, students will have the ability to better understand their relationship with the planet and obtain an understanding of how their behavior (including energy and natural resource use) affects the environment they inhabit. This certificate also provides an excellent background for the various careers in the fields of environmental studies, environmental sciences, public policy, and energy management."	1	cert
56	Web Delivery Certificate of Accomplishment	"This is the second of three Web Certificates, which together prepare students for a broad and specific readiness in dynamic Web technology, from administration to development and interface. Web Delivery specializes on programming languages currently driving the data on the Web."	1	cert
56	Web Design Certificate of Accomplishment	"This certificate provides students with knowledge, skills, and hands-on experience using industry standard software to create web sites that are attractive, accessible, and functional. The curriculum emphasizes design principles applied to layouts, graphics, animations, and interactive applications for the Web."	1	cert
56	Web Infrastructure Certificate of Accomplishment	"This is the first of three Web Certificates, which together prepare students for a broad and specific readiness in dynamic Web technology, from administration to development and interface. Web Infrastructure specializes on Web serveradministration, the backbone of the Web."	1	cert
56	Web Programming Certificate of Accomplishment	"This Certificate of Accomplishment addresses open-source technologies currently driving the data on the Web such as XHTML, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, PERL, PHP, and mysql. This certificate declares proficiency in the following Web technologies: XHTML, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, PERL or PHP, and mysql."	1	cert
56	Natural Science: Mathematics and Technology Emphasis Associate Degree	"Designed to enable students to develop a strong foundation in mathematics and technology. Furthermore, the theoretical knowledge and laboratory skills acquired by students in this emphasis will also enhance their success with obtaining entry-level jobs that require two years of college-level mathematics and technology courses. Classes prepare students for technical careers such as in information technology, systems administration, and networking."	1	twoyear
57	Java Programming	"Introduction to object-oriented program design and development using Java. Course will introduce the fundamentals of Java language including data representation, control structures, class, object, methods, arrays, graphical user interfaces, and applets for web browser."	1	twoyear
57	Programming for Scientists and Engineering	"This course introduces the use of C programming language to solve engineering and applied science problems. A systematic development of program structure, specification, testing and debugging."	1	twoyear
57	Database Concepts and Design	"This course provides an introduction of database concepts and fundamentals for the business manager. This course is designed to cover relational model database concepts and design, creating and editing database files, using relational and logical operators, creating queries with QBE and SQL, creating and printing reports, and sorting and indexing database fi les using a current database application."	1	twoyear
57	Operating Systems 	"This course provides an introduction to operating system fundamentals for the information systems specialist. This course will cover operating systems, system software and utilities. The student is expected to complete assignments outside of class."	1	twoyear
57	Advanced Database Concepts and Design	"Intermediate topics to relational-database concepts and fundamentals for business application: database administration and security, advanced structured-query language (SQL), events programming, and complex reports."	1	twoyear
57	Fundamentals of Networking 	"Fundamentals of computer networks, network hardware and software, installation, network design, and communication links."	1	twoyear
57	Advanced Networking Concepts	"This course covers advanced concepts in networking software and hardware. Installation of WAN components, communications, Internet/Intranet software, proxy servers, transaction servers, domain name servers, and mail servers are reviewed. Design and implementation techniques for large organizations are also covered. "	1	twoyear
57	Advanced Internet Concepts and Design	"This course provides a hands-on exploration in cutting edge HTML techniques needed to enhance web pages with frames, targets, columns, image maps, and META tags. The course will review the roles of the latest technologies such as ASP, JavaScript, and Java. Students will create HTML forms, write ASP web pages for interactivity, and process information submitted via form."	1	twoyear
57	Business and Web Graphics	"This course provides an introduction to graphic editing software for web design and business. The course will include the creation of graphics from scratch; edit existing images, image compression and color reduction techniques. The course will also cover web and presentational page layout techniques, and HTML integration within graphic design."	1	twoyear
57	Beginning Java Programming	"Introduction to developing Java Applets and applications using the Beginning Java Programming language. Emphasis on object oriented programming, control structures, methods, arrays, strings, inheritance, and graphics. "	1	twoyear
57	Computer Concepts	"This course provides an introduction to computer and information systems concepts and terminology, an overview of hardware, and software (systems and applications including word processing, spreadsheet, database, presentation and programming), the history of the microcomputer, privacy and legal issues, and telecommunications (email and Internet)."	1	twoyear
57	Computer Science Associate Degree	"Upon completion of the program, students should be able to understand the social impact of computers on human society, carry out computer related tasks with professional ethics, and write programs using both procedural and object oriented programming languages."	1	twoyear
57	Engineering Associate Degree	"Students will be prepared for engineering internship opportunities or entry-level industrial jobs, with skills in such areas as computer drafting, solid modeling, engineering design, and problem solving. In addition, students will prepare for transfer into four-year engineering programs, learning the fundamentals of physics, chemistry and engineering."	1	twoyear
57	Information Systems Certificate in Basics of Computers	"The purpose of this core program is to provide students with the knowledge, training, and hands-on experience to pursue a career in Information Systems. Students completing the course of study will be able to enter the workforce with a comprehensive understanding of the fundamental elements of computing in a business environment. These courses apply toward the Associate in Science Degree in Information Systems."	1	twoyear
57	Help Desk Certificate 	"This core program provides students with the knowledge, training, and hands-on experience to pursue a career as a Help Desk professional in Information Systems. Students completing this course of study will be able to enter the workforce with a comprehensive understanding of the fundamentals necessary to work as a Help Desk professional in business, government, or education. These courses apply toward the Associate of Science degree in Information Systems."	1	cert
57	Information Systems Associate Degree		1	twoyear
57	Information Systems Certificate		1	cert
57	Networking Certificate		1	cert
57	Programming for the Web Certificate		1	cert
58	Computer Science 	The Computer Information Science program is designed for stu­dents preparing for careers in computer programming and systems analysis. It provides a foundation in currently used and advanced programming languages. It will enhance students’ skills so that they can transfer to four-year universities or qualify as entry-level programmers who pursue careers in the computer industry. 	1	twoyear
58	Computer Science 	The Computer Information Science program is designed for stu­dents preparing for careers in computer programming and systems analysis. It provides a foundation in currently used and advanced programming languages. It will enhance students’ skills so that they can transfer to four-year universities or qualify as entry-level programmers who pursue careers in the computer industry. 	1	cert
58	Database Management 	The Computer Information Science program is designed for stu­dents preparing for careers in computer programming and systems analysis. It provides a foundation in currently used and advanced programming languages. It will enhance students’ skills so that they can transfer to four-year universities or qualify as entry-level programmers who pursue careers in the computer industry. 	1	cert
58	Information Processing 	"This degree combines microcomputer software proficiencies and competencies in hardware support, maintenance, and repair with general education requirements. Students will be able to incorpo­rate three inter-related certificates (Word Processing Technician, Information Processing Technician, and Information Processing Specialist) as major fields of study with course work in natural sci­ence, social science, humanities, languages and rationality, and living skills to earn an Associate in Science degree in Information Processing."	1	twoyear
58	Information Processing Specialist 	"This degree combines microcomputer software proficiencies and competencies in hardware support, maintenance, and repair with general education requirements. Students will be able to incorpo­rate three inter-related certificates (Word Processing Technician, Information Processing Technician, and Information Processing Specialist) as major fields of study with course work in natural sci­ence, social science, humanities, languages and rationality, and living skills to earn an Associate in Science degree in Information Processing."	1	cert
58	Information Processing Technician 	"This information processing technician certificate builds upon pre¬vious training in the use of word processing programs. As employ¬ees become more proficient with basic entry-level skills in word processing, advancement in the work place requires competencies in other microcomputer software programs. These include skills in the operating system, spreadsheet, database management, graph¬ics, and the use of the Internet. This certificate is designed for students interested in job advance¬ment requiring additional computer skills."	1	cert
58	Information Systems Security 	"Information systems security has become a critical knowledge area for those interested in a career as an information technology pro­fessional. This degree provides the information and skills necessary for network administration professionals to implement security from internal and external threats for an enterprise network. It cov­ers client and server security on different operating systems, disas­ter recovery planning, and forensics. This program also provides preparation for several computer information security certification exams, including the Computer Technology Industry Association (CompTIA) Security+ exam, Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE) exams, and several of the Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) certification exams."	1	cert
58	Information Systems Security 	"Information systems security has become a critical knowledge area for those interested in a career as an information technology pro­fessional. This degree provides the information and skills necessary for network administration professionals to implement security from internal and external threats for an enterprise network. It cov­ers client and server security on different operating systems, disas­ter recovery planning, and forensics. This program also provides preparation for several computer information security certification exams, including the Computer Technology Industry Association (CompTIA) Security+ exam, Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE) exams, and several of the Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) certification exams."	1	twoyear
58	Network Administration 	"Information systems security has become a critical knowledge area for those interested in a career as an information technology pro­fessional. This degree provides the information and skills necessary for network administration professionals to implement security from internal and external threats for an enterprise network. It cov­ers client and server security on different operating systems, disas­ter recovery planning, and forensics. This program also provides preparation for several computer information security certification exams, including the Computer Technology Industry Association (CompTIA) Security+ exam, Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE) exams, and several of the Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) certification exams."	1	cert
58	Network Administration 	"Information systems security has become a critical knowledge area for those interested in a career as an information technology pro­fessional. This degree provides the information and skills necessary for network administration professionals to implement security from internal and external threats for an enterprise network. It cov­ers client and server security on different operating systems, disas­ter recovery planning, and forensics. This program also provides preparation for several computer information security certification exams, including the Computer Technology Industry Association (CompTIA) Security+ exam, Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE) exams, and several of the Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) certification exams."	1	twoyear
58	Network Design 	The Network Design Degree and Certificate of Achievement recognize the basic skills needed in the networking environment. Focus is on the knowledge and skills required for day-to-day opera­tion and management of computer networks. The Network Design Degree and Certificate of Achievement prepare students for entry-level positions in computer network design.	1	cert
58	Network Design 	The Network Design Degree and Certificate of Achievement recognize the basic skills needed in the networking environment. Focus is on the knowledge and skills required for day-to-day opera­tion and management of computer networks. The Network Design Degree and Certificate of Achievement prepare students for entry-level positions in computer network design.	1	twoyear
58	Microcomputer Technician 	"This degree focuses on the use of the microcomputer and current, commonly used software to solve problems in a business environment. Course work includes microcomputer applications in database management, desktop publishing, electronic spreadsheets, presentation graphics, operating systems, word processing, and at least one programming language."	1	cert
58	Microcomputer Technician 	"This degree focuses on the use of the microcomputer and current, commonly used software to solve problems in a business environment. Course work includes microcomputer applications in database management, desktop publishing, electronic spreadsheets, presentation graphics, operating systems, word processing, and at least one programming language."	1	twoyear
58	Automated System Technician 	"Designed to prepare students for employment in the programming, testing, repair and maintenance of digital and analog computer controlled systems"	1	cert
58	Automated System Technician 	"Designed to prepare students for employment in the programming, testing, repair and maintenance of digital and analog computer controlled systems"	1	twoyear
58	Electrical Engineer/Computer Engineering 	"SCC’s program provides the foundation in mathematics, physics, and engineering necessary to transfer to a four-year institution and complete a bachelor’s degree in engineering.  Students should consult the institution to which they wish to transfer for the specific lower division requirements. This degree and certificate emphasizes the knowledge and skills required for entry level success in the engineering professions. These include a basic preparation within the scientific fields including physics, mathematics, chemistry, and material sciences. These sciences are applied to technical analysis and graphic communication standards and practices. In addition, projects include environmental and sustainable design issues, product economics, and legal considerations. Current computer technologies and various analytical design and documentation software are emphasized throughout the program."	1	twoyear
58	Mechanical Engineering 	"SCC’s program provides the foundation in mathematics, physics, and engineering necessary to transfer to a four-year institution and complete a bachelor’s degree in engineering.  Students should consult the institution to which they wish to transfer for the specific lower division requirements. This degree and certificate emphasizes the knowledge and skills required for entry level success in the engineering professions. These include a basic preparation within the scientific fields including physics, mathematics, chemistry, and material sciences. These sciences are applied to technical analysis and graphic communication standards and practices. In addition, projects include environmental and sustainable design issues, product economics, and legal considerations. Current computer technologies and various analytical design and documentation software are emphasized throughout the program."	1	twoyear
58	Electric (Power/Lighting Systems) 	Designed for students pursuing employment or upgrade in em­ployment in Manual and CAD drafting applications in Architectural or Structural Engineering related offices.	1	cert
58	Electric (Power/Lighting Systems) 	Designed for students pursuing employment or upgrade in em­ployment in Manual and CAD drafting applications in Architectural or Structural Engineering related offices.	1	twoyear
58	Mechanical (HVAC/Plumbing Systems) 	Designed for students pursuing employment or upgrade in em­ployment in Manual and CAD drafting applications in Architectural or Structural Engineering related offices.	1	cert
58	Mechanical (HVAC/Plumbing Systems) 	Designed for students pursuing employment or upgrade in em­ployment in Manual and CAD drafting applications in Architectural or Structural Engineering related offices.	1	twoyear
58	HVAC Systems Design 	"This program is designed for students pursuing employment or up­grade in training in computer applications of heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems design. "	1	cert
58	HVAC Systems Design 	"This program is designed for students pursuing employment or up­grade in training in computer applications of heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems design. "	1	twoyear
59	Green Certification	"There are many different green certifications available to today's businesses. We will cover the major types of certifications, the process of achieving them and how certification can help you get and retain customers."	1	twoyear
59	Green and Sustainable Business	"The course examines the environmental profiles of the major business segments Learn the major concepts of green business including natural capitalism, the costs and benefits of green business, and how green technologies can improve competitiveness and profitability GNBC 127 Advanced Principles of Green Business."	1	twoyear
59	Computer Hardware	"This course provides the knowledge and skills needed to install hardware, configure, repair, and maintain a computer system in a typical office environment. Topics include hardware components and peripherals, assembly, upgrading, and basic troubleshooting methodology."	1	twoyear
59	Intro to Networks	"An analysis of technologies for connecting computers and computer related devices into networks. This course covers the terminology and the major components of networks: architecture, topologies, hardware components, connections, protocols, network operations, network administration, support, and troubleshooting. Wide Area Networks (WANs) are also covered. Follows the objectives of the CompTIA Net+certification exam."	1	twoyear
59	Network Security	"Knowledge and skills required for Network Administrators and Information Technology professionals to be aware of security vulnerabilities, to implement security measures, to analyze an existing network environment in consideration of known security threats or risks, to defend against attacks or viruses, and to ensure data privacy and integrity. Terminology and procedures for implementation and configuration of security, including access control, authorization, encryption, packet filters, firewalls, and Virtual Private Networks (VPNs)."	1	twoyear
59	Operating Systems Technologies	"This course provides the knowledge and skills to select and install system software, and to diagnose and troubleshoot system problems due to software configuration. Covers all aspects of the operating system, configuration files, drivers, and resource allocation. Topics include computer architecture and the interaction of hardware and software, documentation, command line operations, use of utilities for diagnostics and for configuration, and editing the Registry"	1	twoyear
59	"Interactive Web Pages, Java Script and AJAX"	"Creation of interactive Web pages using JavaScript, including properties, methods, objects, and event handlers of the Document Object Model. Creation of interactive Web pages using AJAX technologies."	1	twoyear
59	Ethical Hacking & Network Defense	"Learn how hackers attack computers and networks, and how to protect Windows and Linux systems. Legal restrictions and ethical guidelines will be taught and enforced. Students will perform many hands-on labs, both attacking and defending, using port scans, footprinting, buffer overflow exploits, SQL injection, privilege escalation, Trojans, and backdoors."	1	twoyear
59	Wireless Networks Advanced	"Knowledge and skills to design, install, configure, manage, and maintain wireless networks, including: advanced fundamentals of wireless communication, current and developing standards and protocols, boosting signal strength, detecting and extending signals, troubleshooting common problems, monitoring the network, security issues, and research and analysis of proposed and developing security solutions. Follows the objectives for the Certified Wireless Network Administrator (CWNA) Examination."	1	twoyear
59	Wireless LANs	"Knowledge and skills needed to select, install and configure wireless networks, including: fundamentals and standards of wireless communication, installation of network access point, and installation, configuration and management of typical products. Also included: common applications, monitoring the network, security, troubleshooting, upgrade and modification. Students in this course should be familiar with LAN Technologies."	1	twoyear
59	Prog Fundamentals I (C++/Java)	"This course covers pointers, arrays with structured elements, file handling, dynamic memory allocation, and building abstract data types. Programming assignments require planning, good coding practices, and documentation. Applications include both numerical and non-numerical problems."	1	twoyear
59	Intro to Programming (C++/Java)	"Introduction to computer programming and problem solving. No prior programming experience required. Concepts include: problem solving techniques, algorithms, program design, control structures, functions, arrays and use of the C++ programming language."	1	twoyear
59	Oracle SQL Databases	A course in the use of Oracle SQL. Students use Oracle Database software and clients to design and develop database systems. The course includes coverage of Oracle proprietary functions and an introduction to PL/SQL	1	twoyear
59	Oracle Database Administration	"An advanced course in the architecture, design, configuration, installation, and maintenance of an Oracle relational database management system. Student will gain the knowledge and skills needed to administer an Oracle client/server database in an enterprise network environment."	1	twoyear
59	Intro to ENGN: Software Tools & Design	"This course introduces the student to team oriented engineering design and problem solving processes as well as the use of computers in the solution of a wide variety of engineering problems. The course makes use of a variety of software applications including commercial spreadsheets such as Microsoft Excel and a graphics program such as Matlab in solving problems. Throughout the course, emphasis will be given to technical communications, teamwork, engineering design and problem solving methodologies."	1	twoyear
59	Biotech Process Instrumentation	An introduction to the theory and application of process control and instrumentation as applied to the Biotechnology Industry. Survey of Electrical and Electronic concepts. Transducers. Process Controllers. Reliability. Data Loggers.	1	twoyear
59	Electronics I: Electronic Measurements	"This course covers the construction and analysis of basic electronic circuits including capacitors and inductors. The student will learn to use the multi-meter to measure DC and AC voltages and currents in resistive series/parallel circuits and the oscilloscope to measure AC and pulsed waveforms, and phase and time delay measurements. The student will also learn the use of computer simulation software to analyze circuits."	1	twoyear
59	Electronics IV: Micro-control Intf	"This course covers micro-controller interfacing, driver programs, input sensors and output electrical and electro-mechanical devices. "	1	twoyear
59	HVAC/Pipe CAD Design	"HVAC and Piping system design theory. Introduction to computer generated documents to specify HVAC (Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning) and piping systems layout and details. This course will have a mechanical design emphasis, introducing terms and component equipment common to these systems. Emphasis will be placed on the standards used for process pipe and HVAC industry drawings. Design theory will include the determination of equipment sizes."	1	twoyear
59	Biotech Calibration and Validation	An introduction to the theory and application of calibration and validation as applied to the Biotechnology Industry.	1	twoyear
59	Intro to Alternative Energy	"An introduction to the theory, applications, and usefulness of various alternative energies as they relate to the future of our civilization and the environment. Topics will include solar thermal energy, solar photovoltaics, bioenergy, fuel cells, hydroelectric power, wave energy, and wind energy."	1	twoyear
59	Intro to Alternative Energy Laboratory	"A project-oriented, hands-on course to introduce students to renewable energies."	1	twoyear
59	Green and Sustainable Small Business Certificate	"Companies are looking at green business initiatives as a means of reducing costs, meeting government mandates, and to meet customer expectations. This certificate will provide students of all business disciplines an essential overview of green business concepts. "	1	cert
59	Green & Sustainable Small Business Noncredit Certificate	"The growing importance of being an environmentally friendly small business cannot be overemphasized. This certification will give small business owners an overview of the aspects of being green, how to get green certification, how to market that certification once you get it and the costs and benefits of greening your business."	1	cert
59	Green and Sustainable Travel Certificate 	Green travel and tourism is one of the fastest growing segments of the travel and tourism industry. All companies either have green initiatives in place or arc developing them. There is a great need in the industry for workers to understand the requirements of green travel. Students that have completed this certificate will have an advantage when entering the workplace.	1	cert
59	Computer Networking and Information Technology Associate Degree	"Students graduating with an Associate in Science degree at City College of San Francisco with a Major in Computer Networking and Information Technology (CNIT) may seek employment in entry-level network administration, computer technical support, and web development positions. After completion of the required General Education areas and 21 units of CNIT courses with a grade of C or better, a student could qualify for an A.S. degree with a Major in Computer Networking and Information Technology. The Major consists of completion of the Core Courses and 9-11 units of required courses from one of the option areas listed below."	1	twoyear
59	Computer Technical Support Certificate	"This program provides instruction in the support of a typical workplace computer environment including hardware, operating systems, and application programs. Students in this program practice diagnostic troubleshooting, technical and logical problem solving, end-user training, and customer relations skills."	1	cert
59	Computer Technician Certificate	"This program of study includes instruction and practice in the identification, installation, and configuration of hardware devices to build, maintain, upgrade, and improve performance of a computer system. This course prepares students for CompTIA’s A+ exam, a certification equivalent to six months’ work experience as a computer technician."	1	cert
59	Fundamentals of Networking Certificate 	"The program of study for the Fundamentals of Networking Certificate provides a solid core of the concepts and terminology, an introduction and overview of all aspects of computer networking, including components and principles of local and wide area networking and the Internet. Students who complete this certificate will be ready to undertake further study and advance to more specific industry training."	1	cert
59	Fundamentals of Technical Support	"The program of study for the Fundamentals of Networking Certificate provides a solid core of the concepts and terminology, an introduction and overview of all aspects of computer networking, including components and principles of local and wide area networking and the Internet. Students who complete this certificate will be ready to undertake further study and advance to more specific industry training."	1	twoyear
59	Network Security Certificate	"This program provides instruction in the measures that must be taken to detect and prevent network security mistakes and vulnerabilities, and includes descriptions of common attacks and methods to configure the operating system, servers, routers, firewalls, and email. Preparation for the CompTIA Security+ exam."	1	cert
59	Wireless Networking Certificate	"The program of study for the Certificate of Accomplishment in Wireless Networking includes description, installation, and configuration of network devices for wireless communication, and focuses on issues of performance and security. Completion of the certificate prepares students to take the Certified Wireless Network Administrator (CWNA) and the Certified Wireless Security Professional (CWSP) exams."	1	cert
59	Computer Science Transfer Degree	"The Major in Computer Science prepares students for transfer to a four-year college. These courses are applicable to students wishing to pursue a degree in computer Science. Students wishing to major in related fields (Computer Engineering, Information Science, etc.) should consult with the Computer Science department degree advisor. Students should consider transfer applicability to their desired 4-year college when choosing whether to take the programming sequence in C++ or Java."	1	twoyear
59	Computer and Info Science Transfer Degree	"The Major in Computer and Information Science prepares students for transfer to a four-year college for majors such as Information Science, Electronic Commerce, and Information Technology. Students should consider transfer applicability to their desired 4-year college when choosing whether to take the programming sequence in C++, Java, or C#."	1	twoyear
59	Database Programming Certificate	"This certificate is designed to introduce students to database fundamentals and computer program interaction with databases. It is expected that students have at least one semester of programming experience before attempting this certificate, such as CS 110A, 111A, or 112A."	1	cert
59	Engineering Associate Degree	"Engineers develop the skill to design functional products and systems based upon a foundation formed from engineering, physical science, and mathematics course work. They pursue rewarding careers in a professional environment with good employment and advancement opportunities. City College of San Francisco offers courses leading to the Associate in Science Degree and Major in Engineering. Graduates generally transfer to four-year institutions as juniors where they can major in computer, electrical, electronics, mechanical, civil, industrial, chemical, manufacturing or other engineering. Others seek employment as an engineering assistant."	1	twoyear
59	Biotechnology Associate Degree	"In the biotechnology curriculum, a two-year course of study, the Engineering and Technology Department offers students specialized training for employment as bio-technicians engaged in research, design, manufacturing, operation, maintenance, testing, or sales related to this field. All students in this field of study complete the required core courses. Specialization is offered from the second through the fourth semester course work and will lead to a certificate of accomplishment concurrently. The program advisers work closely with each student to assure normal progress. Upon successful completion of the curriculum, students receive the Associate in Science degree with Biotechnology as the Major."	1	twoyear
59	Engineering Technology Associate Degree	"In the Engineering Technology Programs, City College trains students for employment as engineering technicians - persons who work with or under the directions of engineers and perform duties requiring a combination of the theoretical knowledge of an engineer and some of the skills of a craftsman."	1	twoyear
59	Electronic Engineering Technology Associate Degree	"In the curriculum in Electronic Engineering Technology, a two-year course of study, the Engineering and Technology Department offers students training for employment by offering instruction in digital/microprocessor and communication electronics. Students in this curriculum complete the common core courses (see preceding Common Core). Specialization is offered throughout the second through the fourth semesters. The program adviser works closely with each student to assure normal progress. Upon successful completion of the curriculum, students receive the Associate in Science degree in Electronic Engineering Technology."	1	twoyear
59	Mechanical Engineering Technology Associate Degree	"In the curriculum in Mechanical Engineering Technology, a two-year course of study, the Engineering and Technology Department offers students specialized training for employment as engineering technicians engaged in research, design, operation, maintenance, testing, or sales. Students in this curriculum complete the common core courses (see preceding Common Core). Specialization is offered from the second through the fourth semester. The programs adviser works closely with each student to assure normal progress. Upon successful completion of the curriculum, students receive the Associate in Science degree in Mechanical Engineering Technology"	1	twoyear
59	Bioprocess Instrumentation and Control Certificate	"Process and control equipment in the biotech industry must be constantly maintained, repaired, upgraded, and validated. Instrumentation technicians are normally generalists, yet certification and FDA requirements require more industry specific specialization in the biotech field. The set of skills acquired through this curriculum may be broadly applied in biotech companies throughout the San Francisco Bay area and beyond."	1	cert
60	Computer Information Systems	"The Computer Information Systems program provides students with the knowledge, skills, and hands-on experience in computer hardware, operating systems, applications, security, networking, and entry-level computer programming. Students will learn the basics of development for the World Wide Web and will gain experience in a variety of computer programming languages. Instruction is available to prepare students to take professional certification exams in the areas of computer hardware, operating systems, applications, security, and networking. The professional certifications include offerings from CompTIA, Cisco, and Microsoft."	1	cert
60	Computer Information Systems	"The Computer Information Systems program provides students with the knowledge, skills, and hands-on experience in computer hardware, operating systems, applications, security, networking, and entry-level computer programming. Students will learn the basics of development for the World Wide Web and will gain experience in a variety of computer programming languages. Instruction is available to prepare students to take professional certification exams in the areas of computer hardware, operating systems, applications, security, and networking. The professional certifications include offerings from CompTIA, Cisco, and Microsoft."	1	twoyear
60	Computer Science 	The Computer Information Science program is designed for stu­dents preparing for careers in computer programming and systems analysis. It provides a foundation in currently used and advanced programming languages. It will enhance students’ skills so that they can transfer to four-year universities or qualify as entry-level programmers who pursue careers in the computer industry. 	1	cert
60	Computer Science 	The Computer Information Science program is designed for stu­dents preparing for careers in computer programming and systems analysis. It provides a foundation in currently used and advanced programming languages. It will enhance students’ skills so that they can transfer to four-year universities or qualify as entry-level programmers who pursue careers in the computer industry. 	1	twoyear
60	Engineering/Electro-Mechanical Specialization 	"This degree or certificate provides training in a multi-disciplinary field of which the primary focus is industrial automation. Topics such as electricity, electronics, industrial motor controls, programmable logic controllers, robotics, AC/DC drives, mechanical design, and manufacturing technologies are covered."	1	cert
60	Engineering/Electro-Mechanical Specialization 	"This degree or certificate provides training in a multi-disciplinary field of which the primary focus is industrial automation. Topics such as electricity, electronics, industrial motor controls, programmable logic controllers, robotics, AC/DC drives, mechanical design, and manufacturing technologies are covered."	1	twoyear
60	Electrical Technology 	"Upon  successful completion of the Electrical Technology certificate program, the student demonstrates skills in the electrical industry in the capacity of a beginning electrician, preferably as an indentured electrical apprentice where the students compare, contrast, and apply basic electrical theory and other major portions of the electrical field. Training and skills demonstrated by the student in this program are crucial to the safe entry into electrical apprenticeships in the electrical field for programs like the IBEWs (International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers) Joint Apprenticeship Training Committee, WECA (Western Electrical Contractors Association) electrical apprenticeship, ABC program (another indentured electrical apprenticeship program)."	1	cert
60	Heating & Air Conditioning 	"This program is designed for students pursuing employment or up­grade in training in computer applications of heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems design. "	1	cert
60	Heating & Air Conditioning 	"This program is designed for students pursuing employment or up¬grade in training in computer applications of heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems design. "	1	twoyear
61	Web Application Security		1	twoyear
61	Networking TCP/IP on NOT 4.0 #688		1	twoyear
61	CISCO Router and IOS Software	"This course provides language independent presented. Treatment of topics including computer organization, data formats, file organization, recursion, and abstract data types. Data structures to be covered will include arrays, link lists, stacks, queues, binary trees, heaps, balanced trees and priority queues. Applications of recursion will be discussed in some detail. "	1	twoyear
61	CISCO Local Area Network Design		1	twoyear
61	CISCO Wide Area Network Design		1	twoyear
61	JavaScript Programming	"Students will learn how to use JavaScript to create dynamic Web pages, and how to add animation and interactivity to make Web pages come alive. The Document Object Model (DOM), Browser Object Model (BOM), and Dynamic HTML (DHTML) will be covered in sufficient detail to be able to develop well-formed Web pages. Students will also learn the characteristics of several different Web browsers."	1	twoyear
61	Discrete Mathematics		1	twoyear
61	Intro to PV Installation 	This course introduces the student to solar photovoltaic (PV) power systems and their installation. Upon successful completion the student will have a rudimentary knowledge for an entry level position in the field. The lab will provide hands-on experience with a variety of systems encountered in the industry.	1	twoyear
61	Computer Programming Associate Degree	"The CIS Programming Degree Program is designed to provide students with skills in computer programming to enable graduates to gain employment as an entry-level programmer. Courses will emphasize skills on how to organize a computer program, and how to program in several different languages such as Java and C++. An Associate in Science Degree and two levels of certificates are offered."	1	twoyear
61	Java Enterprise Programming Certificate	"The JAVA Enterprise Programming program combines JAVA and J2EE in a compact, focused format so that students can enter the job market with the full knowledge of J2EE Architecture and will be able to contribute towards J2EE  Component development as well as J2EE Application Development.  Upon successful completion of this program, students will be able to describe, analyze as well as design and implement the complex J2EE Applications.  These courses also prepare the students for the  Sun  Certified JAVA Technologies Certificates so that students can earn extra qualifications."	1	cert
61	General Networking Associate Degree and Certificate		1	cert
61	General Networking Associate Degree and Certificate		1	twoyear
61	Cisco Networks Certificate		1	cert
61	Web Developer Associate Degree and Certificate	"The Web Application Solutions degree program provides students with the skills necessary to design front-end applications for a Web site. It assumes basic programming skills so that students can design applications that search a web site, obtain interactive information from visitors to the site, implement push and pull technologies, client server interactions, and provide the benefits of having a dynamic, well-structured Web site. A grade of “C” or better is required in all major, certificate and major elective courses."	1	twoyear
61	Web Developer Associate Degree and Certificate	"The Web Application Solutions degree program provides students with the skills necessary to design front-end applications for a Web site. It assumes basic programming skills so that students can design applications that search a web site, obtain interactive information from visitors to the site, implement push and pull technologies, client server interactions, and provide the benefits of having a dynamic, well-structured Web site. A grade of “C” or better is required in all major, certificate and major elective courses."	1	twoyear
61	Computer Science Associate Degree	"The Associate of Arts degree in Computer Science is designed to prepare students for pursing studies at the university level in computer science and engineering. The required core courses in Computer Science, Mathematics and Physics in this associate degree will fulfill the lower division major requirements at many universities. Students are advised, however, to meet with a counselor to assess the course requirements for transfer."	1	twoyear
62	Civil Engineering Design/ Drafting 	"Design and drafting techniques applied to engineering drawings of site and grading plans, underground utilities, highways, structures, and concrete and structural detailing. Includes use of standard detail sheets. "	1	twoyear
62	Data Structures and Algorithms 	"Continued study of computer programming including specification and implementation of data structures, and analysis of associated algorithms. "	1	twoyear
62	Fundamentals of Electronic Devices 	Introduction to electronic devices. Concepts of solid-state rectifier and amplifier circuits. 	1	twoyear
62	Photovoltaic Systems Design and Installation 	"Introduction to photovoltaic technology and its practical application. Focus is on residential and small commercial photovoltaic systems; how they work, the equipment required, and maximizing energy harvest in both utility interactive and off-grid applications. Provides the basic understanding required to size, site, design, and install code-compliant solar energy systems. "	1	twoyear
62	Advanced Photovoltaic Systems 	"Advanced topics in applied photovoltaic technology. Includes applying the National Electrical Code (NEC) and California Electrical Code (CEC) to photovoltaic installations, OSHA safety requirements, commercial applications, off-grid and direct coupled systems, and emerging thinfilm technologies."	1	twoyear
62	Electric Circuits & Devices 	"Fundamental principles of circuit analysis and an introduction to the theory and use of common electronic devices. Subjects covered include node and loop analysis, circuit simplification and equivalence, natural and forced response, op amp behavior and circuits, semiconductor theory and behavior, diodes, transistor, and digital circuits."	1	twoyear
62	Engineering Graphics and Design	Students will develop their three dimensional visualization and design skills using AutoCAD and Inventor software packages. Design projects will develop teamwork and project skills as well as an understanding of the industry standards for mechanical engineering drawings.	1	twoyear
62	Civil Engineering Technology Associate Degree and Certificate	The Civil Engineering Technology program prepares students for variety of technical positions in the civil engineering and engineering construction professions. The program recommended course sequence is set up to allow the student to progress through four semesters and achieve an Associates Degree or Certificate of Achievement.	1	cert
62	Civil Engineering Technology Associate Degree and Certificate	The Civil Engineering Technology program prepares students for variety of technical positions in the civil engineering and engineering construction professions. The program recommended course sequence is set up to allow the student to progress through four semesters and achieve an Associates Degree or Certificate of Achievement.	1	twoyear
62	Computer Science Associate Degree 	The computer Sciences major will allow students whose planned transfer major is Computer Science to earn an Associate Degree while meeting the typical lower division requirements for a Computer Science degree at a four-year institution.	1	twoyear
62	Electronic Technology Associate Degree 	The Electronic Technology major offers students the basic foundation to perform the work of an electronic technician in both traditional engineering environments and service related environments.	1	twoyear
62	Engineering Associate Degree 	"The Engineering Transfer Program is designed for students seeking to fulfill lower division preparation for junior level transfer to bachelor degree engineering programs at four-year colleges and universities.  Students develop the analysis, teamwork, design, and communication skills necessary to succeed in their upper division work and as an engineer in industry."	1	twoyear
62	Civil Engineering Technology Certificate 	The Civil Engineering Technology program prepares students for variety of technical positions in the civil engineering and engineering construction professions.	1	cert
63	Physics (Mechanics)	"The fundamental principles of mechanics are treated within the mathematical framework of elementary differential and integral calculus. Vectors, Newton's Laws, work, energy gravitation, linear and angular momentum, rotational dynamics and motion studies are discussed."	1	twoyear
63	Intro to Database Management	"This course is designed to provide individuals with a complete introduction to database concepts and the relational database model. Topics include QBE, SQL, normalization, design methodology, DBMS functions, database administration, and other database management approaches, such as client/server databases, object oriented databases, and data warehouses. At the completion of this course, students should be able to understand a user’s database requirements and translate those requirements into a valid database design. Microsoft Access is used to illustrate database design concepts. The concepts and skills taught in this course include but go well beyond the level of the Access for Windows I course. This course may be offered in a distance education format."	1	twoyear
63	CCNA 1 – Networking/Home and Small Business	"This course is the first in a two-course series designed to prepare students for the Cisco Certified Entry Network Technician (CCENT) exam, and the course is the first of a four-course series designed to prepare students for the Cisco Certified Networking Associate (CCNA) exam. This course is offered by Shasta College as the Cisco Regional Networking Academy in the area. Instructional materials developed by Cisco Systems are utilized for the course. The course teaches students the skills needed to obtain entry-level home network installer jobs. It also helps students develop some of the skills needed to become network technicians, computer technicians, cable installers, and help desk technicians. It provides a hands-on introduction to networking and the Internet using tools and hardware commonly found in home and small business environments. Labs include PC installation, Internet connectivity, wireless connectivity, file and print sharing, and the installation of game consoles, scanners, and cameras. This course may be offered in a distance education format."	1	twoyear
63	CCNA 4 – Designing/Supporting Computer Networks 	"This course is the fourth in a four-course series designed to prepare students for Cisco Certified Networking Associate (CCNA) exam. The course is offered by Shasta College as the Cisco Regional Networking Academy in the area. Instructional materials developed by Cisco Systems are utilized for the course. Learners progress through a variety of case studies and role-playing exercises, which include gathering requirements, designing basic networks, establishing proof-of-concept, and performing project management tasks. Lifecycle services; including upgrades, competitive analysis, and system integration, are presented in the context of pre-sales support. This course may be offered in a distance education format."	1	twoyear
63	Server 2008 Network Infrastructure	"A Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist course. The terminology, planning, installation, configuration, administration, and troubleshooting Windows Server 2008 Network Infrastructure will be covered. The course is designed to prepare a student to take and pass the Microsoft Certification Exam 70-642 and for employment in the IT field."	1	twoyear
63	Fundamentals of Electronics	"This course is designed for students who wish to be introduced to the basic principles of electronics and electricity for various vocational and industrial applications. Topics include basic theory of DC and AC circuits, semiconductor theory, digital concepts, circuits and systems and their applications."	1	twoyear
63	Web Programming Using Java/PHP/Flash	"Java is a platform-neutral, object-oriented, and secure programming language that is quickly becoming the standard programming language for creating interactive content on the World Wide Web (WWW). PHP (Hypertext Preprocessor) is a programming language that allows web developers to create dynamic content that interacts with databases. PHP is basically used for developing web-based software applications. Adobe Flash Professional is used to create content for the Adobe Engagement Platform (such as web applications, games and movies, and content for mobile phones and other embedded devices).This course covers Introductory Java Applets, PHP Scripting, and Adobe Flash programming."	1	twoyear
63	HTML	"This is a fundamental course on the Hypertext Markup Language for web page authoring, with lecture and hands-on classes. The topics include: the HTML ""TAG"" structure, the basic <HTML>, <HEAD> and <BODY> components of a web document, text formatting, creation of hyperlinks, inclusion of images, the use of tables, frame and form structures, and incorporation of multimedia, applets and javascripts. The editing, saving and publishing of web pages is performed with the basic tools provided with any of the currently available Windows platforms; no special software is needed for the class. This course may be offered in a distance education format."	1	twoyear
63	Fundamentals of Electronics	"This course is designed for students who wish to be introduced to the basic principles of electronics and electricity for various vocational and industrial applications. Topics include basic theory of DC and AC circuits, semiconductor theory, digital concepts, circuits and systems and their applications."	1	twoyear
63	Renewable Energy and Sustainable Development 	"This course introduces students to the field of sustainable development and renewable energy. Participants will receive instruction in sustainable development theory and history, and sustainable development applications such as renewable energy solutions, sustainable building, and sustainable development planning. This course also introduces current developments in national and international development efforts."	1	twoyear
63	Photovoltaic Technology I	"This course introduces students to the field of photovoltaics. Participants will receive instruction in solar electrical theory and history, photovoltaic safety, related vocabulary and terminology, photovoltaic components and function, and types of photovoltaic systems. This course also introduces current developments in the photovoltaic industry including net metering laws, rebates, tax incentives, and its relationship to federal and state economic stimulus packages."	1	twoyear
63	Photovoltaic Technology II	"This course introduces students to the components of photovoltaic hardware and systems; photovoltaic system sizing and costing; site and grid electrical integration; system permitting and inspection; and system commissioning, maintenance, and troubleshooting."	1	twoyear
63	Residential Estimating	"This course is designed for learning construction-estimating techniques for both small and medium sized construction projects. It includes estimating materials, costs, labor, taxes, insurance fees, overhead, profit, transportation and contingencies common in the residential construction industry. In this class students will be responsible for interpreting blueprints, developing budgets and estimates, as well as planning a construction project representative of current industry activity."	1	twoyear
63	Map and Computer-Aided Drafting	"This course teaches the use of the computer and civil design software to produce maps. Course topics include input and processing of field data, digital terrain modeling, contours, subdivisions, roads, and deed descriptions."	1	twoyear
63	Solid Modeling Computer-Aided Drafting	"An advanced computer-aided drafting course using Solid Works, Mechanical Desktop and/or Inventor software to prepare students for drafting positions with high potential to advance to designer, etc. ENGR 33 builds on the skills and knowledge of ENGR 29. This course will focus on how to create 3D models, assemble and constrain assembly models. Students will use advanced drafting skills to solve design problems and to present solutions for production or engineering processes, and to visually communicate their solution."	1	twoyear
63	Engineering Associate Degree	"The emphasis in Engineering is designed to provide the lower division major courses to transfer to a university and earn a Bachelor’s degree in the various fields of engineering. This includes Civil Engineering, Computer Engineering, Electrical Engineering, and Mechanical Engineering."	1	twoyear
63	Computer and Information Systems – Business Information Systems Concentration Associate Degree	"This degree combines the core business courses with courses in the Information Technology (IT) skills area. It prepares you to enter the workforce in an entry level IT related position with many public and private organizations, or to start your own IT related business. The degree also prepares you to transfer to a four-year institution and complete a bachelor’s degree in an IT related area."	1	twoyear
63	Computer and Information Systems Cisco Networking Certificate 	This certificate program is awarded to students who have successfully completed the Introduction to Computer Science course and the CCNA sequence of courses. Students learn entry level networking skills that will help prepare them for a career in the Information Technology (IT) field. The program prepares students to take the Cisco CCNA certification exam.	1	cert
63	Computer and Information Systems – Computer Networking Concentration – CCNA Option Associate Degree and Certificate 	"This degree program prepares students for a career working in the Information Technology (IT) field as a computer and network technician. The primary focus of this field is to design, install, and maintain computer and networking systems. The program focuses on three primary areas of study--Cisco networking, Microsoft networking, and computer maintenance. The program prepares students to take certification exams including Cisco CCNA, Comptia A+, and Microsoft MCTS. Specific skills that are taught include switch and router installation, wireless network installation, server installation, communication technologies, host computer installation and troubleshooting, and basic electronics. Throughout the entire curriculum interpersonal skills are taught and emphasized as a vitally important part of the skill set of a successful IT technician."	1	cert
63	Computer and Information Systems – Computer Networking Concentration – CCNA Option Associate Degree and Certificate 	"This degree program prepares students for a career working in the Information Technology (IT) field as a computer and network technician. The primary focus of this field is to design, install, and maintain computer and networking systems. The program focuses on three primary areas of study--Cisco networking, Microsoft networking, and computer maintenance. The program prepares students to take certification exams including Cisco CCNA, Comptia A+, and Microsoft MCTS. Specific skills that are taught include switch and router installation, wireless network installation, server installation, communication technologies, host computer installation and troubleshooting, and basic electronics. Throughout the entire curriculum interpersonal skills are taught and emphasized as a vitally important part of the skill set of a successful IT technician."	1	twoyear
63	Computer and Information Systems – Web Design Certificate	"This program is designed to be an introduction to the basics of designing and building simple Web pages. The curriculum assists students, small business owners, office and IT workers, and hobbyists to design and maintain a presence on the Web."	1	cert
63	Computer Maintenance Certificate 	"The Computer Maintenance Certificate Program provides the exposure and training necessary to maintain and troubleshoot common microcomputer systems to the board level. This program provides hands-on training in basic electronics, DOS installation and operation, PC repair and computer management."	1	cert
63	Construction Technology Associate Degree	"The curriculum prepares students for entry-level employment in the carpentry trade. Award of specific apprenticeship credit will depend on the employer, local union regulations, aptitude of student as well as curriculum completed. Under normal circumstances, credit for partial fulfillment of apprenticeship requirements can be attained."	1	twoyear
63	Engineering Technology Associate Degree and Certificate		1	cert
63	Engineering Technology Associate Degree and Certificate		1	twoyear
64	Computer Science 	"This program is a comprehensive exposure to programming languages, algorithms and problem solving in preparation for upper division computer science courses. The Computer Science degree includes substantial course work in mathematics as is required by most university computer science programs."	1	cert
64	Computer Science 	"This program is a comprehensive exposure to programming languages, algorithms and problem solving in preparation for upper division computer science courses. The Computer Science degree includes substantial course work in mathematics as is required by most university computer science programs."	1	twoyear
64	Engineering 	"program provides the foundation in mathematics, physics, and engineering necessary to transfer to a four-year institution and complete a bachelor’s degree in engineering.  Students should consult the institution to which they wish to transfer for the specific lower division requirements. This degree and certificate emphasizes the knowledge and skills required for entry level success in the engineering professions. These include a basic preparation within the scientific fields including physics, mathematics, chemistry, and material sciences. These sciences are applied to technical analysis and graphic communication standards and practices. In addition, projects include environmental and sustainable design issues, product economics, and legal considerations. Current computer technologies and various analytical design and documentation software are emphasized throughout the program."	1	twoyear
64	General Engineering Technology 	"successful completion of the curriculum in general engineering technology will prepare students for entry-level positions as engineering technicians. The certificate is designed to provide knowledge and career technical skills in mathematics, physics, chemistry, and engineering"	1	cert
64	Environmental Studies and Sustainability	Successful completion of the environmental studies and sustain-ability curriculum will prepare students for transfer to four-year colleges or universities. The major has been designed to meet lower-division requirements for environmental studies	1	twoyear
64	Photovoltaic	the purpose of the Photovoltaic skills Certificate is to provide students with the knowledge and skills required to obtain employment as Photovoltaic system installers and technicians. emphasis is on the critical skill competencies as recommended by the North American Board of Certified energy Practitioners for entry level photovoltaic systems work. A skills certificate is designed to provide career technical skills; it is not equivalent to an associate degree.	1	cert
64	Photovoltaic Advanced 	the purpose of the Photovoltaic skills Certificate is to provide students with the knowledge and skills required to obtain employment as Photovoltaic system installers and technicians. Emphasis is on the critical skill competencies as recommended by the North American Board of Certified energy Practitioners for entry level photovoltaic systems work. A skills certificate is designed to provide career technical skills; it is not equivalent to an associate degree.	1	cert
65	Database Applications I: Access	"Learn to use Windows database management software package, Microsoft Access, on a PC with a hands-on introduction to database administrative tasks: data input, storage, retrieval, editing and reporting. "	1	twoyear
65	Database Applications II: Access	"An advanced database course for the student who wants to become professionally competent in database management software to perform advanced administrative tasks using Microsoft Access for business and personal data-handling tasks; emphasis on relational and multiple database design, advanced storage, retrieval, queries, reporting, SQL, and Visual Basic for Access. "	1	twoyear
65	Network Fundamentals 	"An introductory course in networking specific to local area networks (LAN). Topics will include LAN hardware, software, topology, transmission medium, wide area network connectivity, diagnostic tools, system administration, and vendor specific LAN products. Class is complemented with hands-on experience in constructing a local area network. Course is patterned after Cisco training guidelines."	1	twoyear
65	Fundamentals of Electronics	"Activity-based introduction to the fundamentals of DC and AC electrical/electronic circuits. Course covers the basic mathematical laws, terminologies, testing and measuring of simple circuits. Laboratory exercises will emphasize the use of tools, electrical test instruments and measuring devices."	1	twoyear
65	Intro to Solar Installation and Integration 	"An introductory course targeted to junior-level photovoltaic installers to provide a foundation of skills necessary in solar installation. Topics include electrical theory and practice, photovoltaic theory and integration, and solar installation skills. The course is a balance of theory, hands-on practice and real world examples."	1	twoyear
65	"Solar Design, Estimation and Sales "	"Provides a foundation of knowledge and skills to understand and sell basic solar energy systems. Includes fundamental economic principles and incentive programs related to solar systems; design of PV and solar thermal systems, sizing and cost estimation of solar systems, and fundamental customer service and marketing practices. Focus will also be on increasing student’s marketability in the renewable energy job marketplace."	1	twoyear
65	Intro to Environmental Science	"An interdisciplinary introduction to aspects of environmental and natural resource issues and their impact on human welfare. Exploration of causes of environmental issues in a natural sciences, social sciences, business and engineering context. Study of sustainability and potential solutions to environmental problems."	1	twoyear
65	Fundamentals of Electronics	"Activity-based introduction to the fundamentals of DC and AC electrical/electronic circuits. Course covers the basic mathematical laws, terminologies, testing and measuring of simple circuits. Laboratory exercises will emphasize the use of tools, electrical test instruments and measuring devices."	1	twoyear
65	Intro to Solar Installation and Integration 	"An introductory course targeted to junior-level photovoltaic installers to provide a foundation of skills necessary in solar installation. Topics include electrical theory and practice, photovoltaic theory and integration, and solar installation skills. The course is a balance of theory, hands-on practice and real world examples."	1	twoyear
65	"Telecommunications, Networking and Wireless Technologies"	"An introductory course designed to acquaint students with today’s convergent communications technologies. Course will examine the structure, function and services of the networks and systems used to provide voice, data, and wireless communications. This is the first course in a program of study for Telecommunications, Wireless and Network Information Technology majors but has been designed to provide anyone interested with insight into the workings and opportunities of this dynamic and exciting field."	1	twoyear
65	Electrical Fundamentals for Telecommunications	"A foundation course in the study of electricity and electronics fundamentals. This course is the first course in majors that require and in depth understanding and developed skill in direct and alternating current. Coverage includes the vocabulary, components, laws and test equipment used to apply electrical theory to working circuits and systems. Directed laboratory experience with test equipment as applied to telecommunications."	1	twoyear
65	Structured Wiring and Cabling for Telecommunications and Networking 	"Technical introduction with hands on experience in the standards and practices of Telecommunications and Networking structured wiring and cabling. Course includes coverage of equipment, techniques, terminology, and specifications used in the telecommunications and networking industries. Students will install, test and troubleshoot basic telecommunications and networking infrastructure from wired lines and cabling to network patch panels and distribution systems."	1	twoyear
65	Wireless and Mobile Communications Fundamentals 	"This course presents a study of the fundamental concept of wireless communications as it applies to mobile communications, wireless networking, and applications. The course will examine all aspects of wireless technology including: history and structure of wireless communications networks, access technologies, fundamentals of radio frequency transmission, modulation and digital voice coding, cellular packet radio systems, and wireless local area networks."	1	twoyear
65	Signal Transmission and Radio Frequency Fundamentals 	"Analysis of the transmission of signals as applied to wireline and wireless communications. Covers concepts of frequency, wavelength, power, phase, gain and loss, R.F. and their applications to the transmission of information. Lab and skill activities emphasize installation and measurement techniques with electronic test equipment and specialized telecommunications test gear. Students will work with live telecommunications circuits and equipment."	1	twoyear
65	Transport Networks and the Fundamentals of Digital Communications	Instruction covers the primary transport networks and basic digital communications fundamentals that make it possible for end users to access and utilize the world’s telecommunication from both wire line and wireless access points. Focused hands-on lab activities in the installation and testing of digital signal processing at the DS1 (T-Carrier) level.	1	twoyear
65	Wireless Local Area Networks	"An in-depth technical course in the design and implementation of wireless local area networks. Students will be introduced to the technology, infrastructure, application and installation of wireless networks. Students will install and administer a wireless network using Cisco product lines."	1	twoyear
65	Network Fundamentals	"An introductory course in networking specific to local area networks (LAN). Topics will include LAN hardware, software, topology, transmission medium, wide area network connectivity, diagnostic tools, system administration, and vendor specific LAN products. Class is complemented with hands-on experience in constructing a local area network. Course is patterned after Cisco training guidelines."	1	twoyear
65	Network Systems Administration	"An application-based course in Network Administration specific to LAN’s. Coverage includes the functions and concepts of a wide area network, Microsoft server,designing LAN user accounts and their network administration. Hands-on experience provided in setting up and troubleshooting servers, workstations, network and peripheral devices. Course is patterned after Microsoft networking guidelines."	1	twoyear
65	Network Switches - Concepts and Applications	"Introductory course in network switching concepts and configurations as applied to computer networks. Course examines switching protocols, spanning tree protocols, virtual LANs, and other specific models. Basic design of switch configurations and the use of switches in network architecture will be covered. Includes instructor-directed, hands-on activities. This course is patterned after Cisco training guidelines."	1	twoyear
65	Network Security	This course introduces students to network security using firewall and VPN (virtual private network) technology. Students will be exposed to the theory and application of both firewall and VPN network architecture. Students will have the opportunity for hands-on practice to administer security policy and VPN configuration using Checkpoint software.	1	twoyear
65	Troubleshooting the Internetwork	This course outlines the troubleshooting methodology and techniques for routers and switches in a network infrastructure. Students will learn to use existing software and the diagnostic features of a protocol analyzer to troubleshoot and analyze internetworks. This course is patterned after Cisco training guidelines.	1	twoyear
65	Computer Information Specialist Associate Degree & Certificate	"This program is designed for the student seeking a career that requires exceptional computer skills. Career opportunities range from data entry operators to computer information specialists. The program gives students experience with the most popular computer software application packages, covers the basics of the Internet, and includes a comprehensive review of English for today’s business environment. This career is excellent for a detailed-oriented person with good keyboarding skills and an interest in computer software applications."	1	cert
65	Computer Information Specialist Associate Degree & Certificate	"This program is designed for the student seeking a career that requires exceptional computer skills. Career opportunities range from data entry operators to computer information specialists. The program gives students experience with the most popular computer software application packages, covers the basics of the Internet, and includes a comprehensive review of English for today’s business environment. This career is excellent for a detailed-oriented person with good keyboarding skills and an interest in computer software applications."	1	twoyear
65	Solar Energy Technology Certificate		1	cert
65	Solar Installation Certificate		1	cert
65	Telecommunications and Wireless Technology Associate Degree		1	twoyear
65	Network Engineering Certificate		1	cert
65	Basic Networking Certificate		1	cert
65	PC Configuration & Repair Certificate		1	cert
66	Electronics	Designed to prepare the student for employment in industry by providing an extensive background in electronics theory with laboratory application.	1	cert
66	Electronics	Designed to prepare the student for employment in industry by providing an extensive background in electronics theory with laboratory application.	1	twoyear
66	Home Technology Integrator Job-Direct 	"This certificate provides training to configure, integrate, maintain, and troubleshoot electronic and digital home integration systems. Coursework provides the essential skills for residential networking concepts, components, and information on home network installation. This includes techniques to install, trim, terminate, and troubleshoot cabling systems. In addition, it provides the training and skills necessary to integrate audio, security and environmental controls in a complete system."	1	cert
66	Computer Information Security Job-Direct 	"This program provides the information and skills necessary for network administration professionals to implement security from internal and external threats for an enterprise network. It covers client and server security on different operating systems, disaster recovery planning, and forensics. This program also provides preparation for several computer information security certification exams, including the Computer Technology Industry Association CompTIA) Security+ exam, Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE) exams and several of the Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) certification exams."	1	cert
66	Mechatronics	"Mechatronics is the blending of electronics, mechanics, electrical. and computers to produce a well-rounded technician capable of handling the complex maintenance and operations tasks demanded by modern manufacturing, transportation, communication, and other industries. The modularization of electro-mechanical devices no longer requires in-depth specialization of a single field of study as more emphasis is placed on troubleshooting and replacement skills for maintenance and generalized knowledge of how systems work together for operations and purchasing and planning."	1	cert
66	Mechatronics	"Mechatronics is the blending of electronics, mechanics, electrical. and computers to produce a well-rounded technician capable of handling the complex maintenance and operations tasks demanded by modern manufacturing, transportation, communication, and other industries. The modularization of electro-mechanical devices no longer requires in-depth specialization of a single field of study as more emphasis is placed on troubleshooting and replacement skills for maintenance and generalized knowledge of how systems work together for operations and purchasing and planning."	1	twoyear
67	Computer Information Systems Associate Degree and Certificate	"The Computer Information Systems Program teaches concepts, procedures and terminology, as well as the skills and applications necessary to operate computers. "	1	cert
67	Computer Information Systems Associate Degree and Certificate	"The Computer Information Systems Program teaches concepts, procedures and terminology, as well as the skills and applications necessary to operate computers. "	1	twoyear
67	Database Creation & Management 	"CIS 19B (ACCESS) will teach the student to use a database program on a microcomputer. Students will learn database creation, report generation, updating, editing, and form structure and use. "	1	twoyear
68	Database Creation & management (Access)	"CIS 19B (ACCESS) will teach the student to use a database program on a microcomputer. Students will learn database creation, report generations, updating, editing, and form structure and use."	1	twoyear
68	Internet Programming XML	"CIS 4 is an introductory course using Extensible Markup Language. XML is the evolutionary successor to Hyper Text Markup Language (HTML). Extensible Markup Language (XML) is the right tool for modern information management. XML provides a flexible framework to create your own customized markup language documents. XML provides the foundation for Ecommerce documents requiring client and server side application, streaming site development and capturing hyper text relationships using XML Extensible Link Language (XLL)."	1	twoyear
68	Networking Essentials 	"CIS 81A provides the knowledge and training for information system (IS) professionals who need to design, plan, implement, and support computer networks or who plan to take the Microsoft Certified Professional exam, Networking Essentials, or the TIA Network+ exam. CIS 82 Internet Information Server"	1	twoyear
68	Electrical Circuits 	"ENGR 25 is the study of fundamental principles of electrical circuits including direct current circuit analysis, AC transient and steady-state circuit analysis, Ohm’s law, Kirchoff’s laws, nodal methods of circuit analysis, capacitors and inductors, phasors and polyphase circuits."	1	twoyear
68	Engineering Mechanics: Statics	"ENGR 35 is the study of vector algebra and the statics of particle equivalent systems of force for rigid bodies, distributed forces and centroids and centers of gravity, analysis of structures, including trusses, frames and machines, forces in beams and cables, friction, moments of inertia, and the method of virtual work."	1	twoyear
68	Computer Information Systems Associate Degree	"The Computer Information Systems Program at West Hills College Lemoore teaches concepts, procedures and terminology as well as the skills and applications necessary to operate computers and network systems."	1	twoyear
68	Web Database Technology Certificate	"This certificate is for those students interested in the concepts of database design and management over the Internet. Using the Java platform, students are taught how to create data-driven Web sites while implementing the latest technologies such as relational databases, PHP/My SQL, XML. The emphasis in this module is placed on the detailed hands-on learning skills required to work with these technologies. A successful student should be familiar with HTML and JAVA."	1	cert
68	"Severs, Networking & Administration Certificate "	"This certificate is for those students interested in network essentials and the use of an Internet information server. These courses provide knowledge and training for Information System (IS) professionals who need to design, plan, implement, and support computer networks. Students will learn how to install, configure, and implement all components that comprise IIS."	1	cert
68	Engineering Associate Degree	"Engineers analyze, design, build, test, and perfect our environment by applying science and math to practical applications. Students with an interest in engineering can earn an associate degree anddevelop knowledge and skills necessary to transfer to a four-year degree program. This program is designed to satisfy core requirements for many engineering transfer majors. In addition to the traditional branches of civil, mechanical, electrical, computer, and chemical engineering, more specific disciplines have evolved such as biomedical, aerospace, petroleum, and agricultural engineering. The engineering field is innovative, challenging, and growing each year."	1	twoyear
69	Engineering Physics Mechanics	"Mechanics is the first course in the engineering physics series. It covers vectors, kinematics, dynamics, energy, momentum, universal gravity, rotational physics, fluid dynamics, elasticity and harmonic motion."	1	twoyear
69	Engineering Physics Electricity and Magnetism	"Electricity and magnetism is the second course in the engineering physics series. Topics to be studied include charge and matter, the electric field, Gauss’s Law, electric potential, capacitors and dielectric, current and resistance, electromotive force and circuits, magnetic fields, applications of Ampere’s Law, inductance and Faraday’s Law of Induction, magnetic properties of matter, and alternating currents. Problem solutions are emphasized using calculus."	1	twoyear
69	Software Design 		1	twoyear
69	Engineering Graphics 	"A study of orthographic projection, sections, auxiliary (single and double) dimensioning, tolerancing, subassemblies, threads and fasteners and weldments."	1	twoyear
69	Vector Mechanics 	"Application of static principles for solution of problems with particles, trusses, frames, cables and other structural components under concentrated distributed force systems."	1	twoyear
69	Computer Science Option Associate Degree 		1	twoyear
69	Computer Science Certificate 	"After completing a CIS Computer Science Option Certificate, a student will be able to apply basic programming skills in the development of computing applications and operations within the general field of information technology. "	1	cert
69	Engineering Associate Degree 		1	twoyear
